medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

Long-Term Persistence of IgG Antibodies in SARS-CoV Infected
Healthcare Workers

1
2
3

4 Xiaoqin Guo1,#, Zhongmin Guo2,#, Chaohui Duan3,#, Zeliang Chen1#, Guoling Wang1, Yi Lu4, Mengfeng
5 Li5, Jiahai Lu1,*
6
7

1

8

China

9

2

Animal Experiment Center, Sun Yat-sen University, 510080, P. R. China

10

3

Clinical Laboratory, The Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou,

11

510080, P. R. China

12

4

13

USA.

14

5

15

China

One Health Center, School of Public Health, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, 510080, P. R.

Department of Health Law, Policy and Management, School of Public Health, Boston University,

Department of Microbiology, Zhongshan School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University, 510080, P. R.

16
17

# the authors contributed equally to this work

18

* Corresponding author. lujiahai@mail.sysu.edu.cn for Jiahai Lu.

19
20
NOTE: This preprint reports new research that has not been certified by peer review and should not be used to guide clinical practice.

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

21
22
23

ABSTRACT

24

BACKGROUND

25

The ongoing worldwide outbreak of the 2019-nCoV is markedly similar to the severe acute

26

respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak 17 years ago. During the 2002-2003 SARS outbreak,

27

healthcare workers formed a special population of patients. Although virus-specific IgG play

28

important roles in virus neutralization and prevention against future infection, limited information is

29

available regarding the long term persistence of IgG after infection with SARS-like coronavirus.

30

METHODS

31

A long-term prospective cohort study followed 34 SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers from a

32

hospital with clustered infected cases during the 2002-2003 SARS outbreak in Guangzhou, China,

33

with a 13-year follow-up. Serum samples were collected annually from 2003-2015. Twenty

34

SARS-CoV-infected and 40 non-infected healthcare workers were enrolled in 2015, and their serum

35

samples were collected. All sera were tested for IgG antibodies with ELISA using whole virus and a

36

recombinant nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV, as a diagnostic antigen.

37

RESULTS

38

Anti SARS-CoV IgG was found to persist for up to 12 years. IgG titers typically peaked in 2004,

39

declining rapidly from 2004-2006, and then continued to decline at a slower rate. IgG titers in

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

40

SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers remained at a significantly high level until 2015. Patients

41

treated with corticosteroids at the time of infection were found to have lower IgG titers than those

42

without.

43

CONCLUSIONS

44

IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV can persist for at least 12 years. The presence of SARS-CoV IgG

45

might provide protection against SARS-CoV and other betacoronavirus. This study provides valuable

46

information regarding humoral immune responses against SARS-CoV and the 2019-nCoV.

47
48
49

Keywords: SARS-CoV; IgG antibodies; Cohort Study

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

50

1. INTRODUCTION

51

On December 31, 2019, an outbreak of coronavirus causing infections in Wuhan, China, was officially

52

reported. The outbreak rapidly spread to several provinces of China and other countries. Currently, the

53

ongoing outbreak in China caused by a new coronavirus, named 2019-nCoV by WHO, is becoming a

54

global crisis. Notably, the 2019-nCoV is highly similar to the severe acute respiratory syndrome

55

coronavirus (SARS-CoV), which is characterized by high mortality and infectivity. Therefore,

56

information on SARS-CoV will be valuable for the prevention and control of the current outbreak.

57

SARS was first confirmed in Guangdong, China in 2002-2003, and subsequently became a pandemic,

58

spreading rapidly to 31 countries and regions, causing panic and a global public health crisis.1-3 In

59

total, 8,422 SARS cases were reported to the World Health Organization (WHO) with a case fatality

60

rate of 10.88% (916/8,422); of these total cases, 5,327 cases and 349 deaths were reported from 29

61

provinces of China. Guangdong was among the most affected provinces, with 1,511 reported cases,

62

22.90% (346/1,511) of which occurred in healthcare workers.3-5 During emergency disease control,

63

frontline healthcare workers, including physicians, nurses, and other healthcare workers, who were

64

exposed to the virus while treating and caring for SARS patients in the early stages of the outbreaks,

65

were mainly affected. During the later stages of the outbreak, although precautions to prevent the

66

infection were enhanced, infection of healthcare workers still occurred.6,7 No natural SARS-CoV

67

infections have been identified since the last confirmed case in May 2004.8 The reasons why SARS

68

caused a transient epidemic and was experienced as an isolated event, remain unelucidated.9 There are

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

69

concerns that SARS-CoV will re-emerge in the future; consequently, studies are underway to

70

determine the mechanisms through which SARS-CoV interacts with the host immune system, crosses

71

host barriers, and other related aspects.

72

SARS-CoV was initially identified as having occurred through interspecies transmission from small

73

carnivores (e.g., palm civets and raccoon dogs) to humans in 2003.10 Recently, studies indicate that

74

SARS-CoV may have originated from bats. Bat coronavirus isolates have been shown to be able to

75

recognize both human and bat ACE2 receptors.11 Coronaviruses can exploit numerous cellular

76

receptors and potentially cause various illnesses such as respiratory and gastrointestinal diseases.12

77

Particularly, the spike protein is an important viral determinant of virus-receptor interaction,

78

interspecies transmission, and host tropism, and its mutation can facilitate cross-species infection and

79

human-to-human transmission.13 Another novel coronavirus similar to SARS-CoV, the middle-east

80

respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), emerged in the Middle East in 2012. MERS-CoV

81

has been shown to be transmissible from camels to humans, highlighting the ongoing threat posed by

82

SARS-CoV or other SARS-like viruses.14,15

83

SARS-CoV IgG antibodies have neutralization activities and provide protection against infections.

84

Presence of IgG antibodies against virus and nucleocapsid protein represents protective immune

85

responses. While some previous studies reported longitudinal profiles of SARS IgG antibodies for up

86

to 5 years,16-20 there has been a lack of knowledge on humoral immune responses for longer durations.

87

In our current study, we conducted a 13-year follow-up study on a cohort of SARS-CoV-infected

88

healthcare workers for analyzing the presence and persistence of antibodies against SARS-CoV.

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

89

2. METHODS

90

2.1 STUDY SITE AND PARTICIPANT ENROLLMENT

91

The study site was a teaching hospital and the main center for treating clustered SARS cases in

92

2002-2003 in Guangzhou, China. The hospital employed 4,797 staff, possessed 2,140 annual open

93

beds, and treated over 3.2 million patients annually. During the outbreak (from February to March,

94

2003), a total of 95 healthcare workers, out of all the staff in this hospital, were diagnosed with SARS

95

according to the diagnostic criteria promulgated by the Health Bureau of Guangdong (published on

96

February 3, 2003), and 34 of these cases were enrolled in this study. The majority of the participants

97

were aged between 20 and 30, in 2003, and 94.11% (32/34) of them were females (Table S1). The

98

enrollment criteria included clinical diagnosis of SARS-CoV infection in a healthcare worker treated

99

in the above mentioned hospital, the date of onset being prior to April 16, 2003, and an estimated

100

long-term follow-up of more than 9 years.

101

The sera used in this study is derived sample of the annual physical examination of the SARS-CoV

102

infected healthcare workers. Antibody surveillance is a part of the examination. The annual physical

103

examination has been reviewed and supported by the hospital ethics review committee. Written

104

consent was signed at the first examination.

105

2.2 SAMPLE COLLECTION

106

A total of 362 serum samples was collected. This included samples collected at the time of hospital

107

admission in 2003, from all study participants, and yearly sample collection, when the participants

108

attended their annual phyical examinations (April to June from 2004 through 2015). Eighty samples

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

109

were missing in the follow-up (Table S2): there was an interruption of sample collection in 2012 or

110

2013 due to an unexpected absence of the investigators in charge of sample collections; samples of 6

111

subjects were not collected in 2014 (Patient No. 29 - 34) and 2015 (Patient No. 26 - 28, 31-33)

112

respectively, for failing to arrange a physical examination or due to resignation. In addition, serum

113

samples from another 20 subjects, from the 95 SARS cases, were collected in 2015 (Table S3).

114

Another 40 non-SARS infected healthcare workers from the same hospital were enrolled and serum

115

samples were collected, as the control group, to verify the end result data of the 34

116

SARS-CoV-infected healthcare cohort in 2015 (Table S4).

117

2.3 DETECTION AND QUANTIFICATION OF IgG ANTIBODIES

118

Serum IgG antibodies were detected with a SARS-CoV IgG antibody enzyme-linked immunosorbent

119

assay (ELISA) Kit (BGI-GBI Biotech Co. Ltd., Beijing, China), which used the whole SARS-CoV as

120

the detection antigen. Briefly, the serum samples were added at a 1:10 diluion and incubated in

121

pre-coated plates. After the processes of washing, reacting with HRP-labeled goat anti-human IgG,

122

color developing, and stopping the reaction, the absorbance was measured at 450 nm using a plate

123

reader. The IgG antibodies against nucleocapsid protein were detected with a recombinant SARS-CoV

124

N199 antigen assay developed in our laboratory as described previously21. Indirect ELISA was

125

performed to detect and quantify antibodies (at 1:10 dilution) against SARS-CoV N199 in the serum

126

samples, as previously described by Guo et al21.

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

127

2.4 STATISTICAL ANALYSIS

128

Boxplots and heatmaps were used to show the temporal trends and variations in the antibody levels.

129

Non-linear exponential decay models were used to estimate the average decay rates of the antibody

130

level. A non-parametric Mann Whitney U test was used to compare the IgG values of samples from

131

SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers with those from the control in 2015. The test was also used to

132

compare the anti-SARS-CoV IgG titers from SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers who were

133

treated with or without corticosteroids in 2003. We used the Kappa test to estimate the consistence of

134

the results of a positive rate for both methods in the samples of the SARS-CoV-infected healthcare

135

worker group from 2003 to 2005 and non-infected healthcare worker group in 2015. Missing values

136

were replaced with estimated values from exponential decay models. Additionally, we conducted a

137

comparison for the decay trend of the data with and without the missing value replacements.

138

3. RESULTS

139

3.1 PROFILES OF IgG AGAINST SARS-CoV FROM 2003 TO 2015

140

ELISA detection results showed that the IgG levels peaked in 2004, declined quickly from 2004 to

141

2006, and further decreased at a slower rate to a mean OD450nm value of 0.286 (against whole virus)

142

and 0.330 (against N199) in 2015 (Figure 1, A and B). IgG levels against SARS-CoV varied between

143

individuals, with the OD450nm range from 1.162 to 0.48 for IgG against whole virus, and 2.374 to

144

0.581 for IgG against N199. Notably, two healthcare workers, who were diagnosed as

145

SARS-CoV-infected patients, were negative for IgG against both the whole virus and N199, over the

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

146

entire study period (2003 – 2015), suggesting a possibility of misdiagnosis during the initial

147

admission in 2003; therefore, they were excluded from further statistical analyses (Figure 1, C and D).

148

The IgG levels against whole virus in 4 SARS infected healthcare workers increased notably after

149

2004, two of which also showed an increase in IgG antibodies against N199, while their levels in

150

other SARS infected healthcare workers decreased continuously during the following years (Figure 1,

151

C and D).

152

In the 13-year follow-up cohort, 80 out of 442 (18.10%) serum samples were lost. We used the

153

exponential regression of curve estimation method to estimate the missing values (Figure 1). Next, we

154

adopted the exponential decay models to define antibody decay, and the results indicated that the

155

antibody titers exhibited an overall declining trend in IgG against both whole virus and N199 (Figure

156

2, A and B). A similar decay trend inf IgG titers was found, although the missing values were not

157

replaced in the model (Figures S1 and S2). Furthermore, the proportion of study participants with IgG

158

titer against whole virus (> cutoff value) was 81.25% (26/32) in 2003, peaked at 100.00% (32/32) in

159

2007, and decreased to 69.23% (18/26) in 2015 (Figure 2C). For IgG antibody against N199, the

160

initial positive (higher than the cutoff value) was 59.38% (19/32) in 2003, peaked at 87.50% (28/32)

161

in 2005, and finally decreased to 19.23% (5/26) in 2015 (Figure2D). The proportion of both the IgGs

162

exhibited a reduced trend, and the higher level (>2 cutoff value) declined annually until it reached

163

26.92 % (IgG against whole virus) and 0.00% (IgG against N199) in 2015 (Figure 2, C and D).

164

Two healthcare workers, patient No. 11 and No. 26, who had previously been diagnosed with

165

SARS-CoV infection, were identified not to have detectable levels of IgG against N199 over the

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

166

entire study period (2003-2015). Anti-N199 IgG titers for patient No. 33 were also negative for all the

167

samples collected except the ones collected in 2005. The IgG titer against the whole virus in these

168

patients were weakly positive.

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

169

3.2 DIFFERENCES IN ANTI-SARS-CoV IgG TITERS OF DIFFERENT

170

SARS-CoV-INFECTED GROUPS

171

To analyze the general IgG distributions, subjects were divided into 2 groups: group 1 (n=46),

172

including SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers enrolled in the original cohort (n=26) and

173

an additional group of SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers who were enrolled in 2015

174

(n=20), and group 2 (n=40) of non-infected healthcare worker, selected as the control. The

175

IgG against whole virus was above the cutoff value, and the IgG titers were significantly

176

higher in group 1 than in group 2 (p < 0.001; Figure 3A). A similar trend was observed for

177

IgG against N199 titers, as group 1 had significantly higher IgG titers than group 2 (p=0.034;

178

Figure 3B). Moreover, in group 1 the positive rate of IgG binding to whole virus and N199

179

was 58.70% and 28.26% with statiscical significance (p < 0.005), respectively.

180

Kappa test was used to estimate the consistency between the methods for testing IgG. The

181

consistency test was mainly focused on the period from 2003-2005, as the IgG titers remained

182

stable during this period. Over this period, only 10 of the 102 cases showed inconsistent

183

results between the two detection methods, and the Kappa coefficient was 0.712, suggesting a

184

good general consistence between the results obtained through the whole virus and N199

185

ELISA methods. Similarly, in the control group, only 5 of the 40 cases displayed inconsistent

186

results, and the Kappa coefficient was -0.42, also indicating a general data consistency

187

between the two methods (Table S5).

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

188

3.3 THE EFFECT OF CORTICOSTEROID TREATMENT ON IgG ANTIBODY

189

RESPONSES

190

During the outbreak, some SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers received corticosteroid

191

treatment, while others did not. The cohort was divided into two groups to assess the effect of

192

corticosteroid use on IgG titers in 2003. Of the 32 SARS-CoV-infected patients (with 2 cases

193

excluded as suspected to have been misdiagnosed), medical records were available for 27

194

patients, and the records showed that 17 of these patients were, and the rest were not, treated

195

with corticosteroids during the initial care for SARS in the 2002-2003 outbreak (Table S6). In

196

SARS patients with corticosteroids treatment and those not treated with corticosteroids, the

197

IgG against the whole virus was 0.35 ± 0.24 and 0.58 ± 0.29, respectively (p=0.03; Figure

198

4A), and the IgG against N199 was 0.56 ± 0.40 and 0.72 ± 0.51, respectively. Although IgG

199

against N199 of patients not treated with corticosteroids were higher than those treated with

200

corticosteroids, the difference was not statistically significant (Figure 4B; p=0.17).

201

4. DISCUSSIONS

202

SARS was first confirmed in Guangdong, China in 2003, and subsequently became a

203

pandemic as it spread rapidly to other countries and regions. Cases from Guangdong

204

accounted for nearly 20% of reported cases and approximately 17% of reported healthcare

205

worker cases worldwide. Healthcare workers, in particular, were exposed to an extremely

206

high risk in combating SARS due to limited knowledge of the etiology and other natures of

207

SARS outbreak. Presently, 17 years after the last SARS outbreak, a new SARS-CoV-like

208

virus, 2019-nCoV, a new member of the betacoronavirus, is causing large scale outbreak in

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

209

China. Till January 21, 2010, 440 confirmed cases have been reported in China, and several

210

cases have been reported outside China, including the USA, Japan, and Thailand.

211

Unfortunately, a large cluster of healthcare worker infections was officially reported on

212

January 20, 2020 at an early stage of this outbreak. Since information regarding this new

213

betacoronavirus outbreak remains largely unknown, evidence and knowledge from

214

SARS-CoV may provide important clues, aiding our responses to the outbreak.

215

IgG antibodies are proven to be important for virus neutralization and immunological

216

protection. As the first sampling of sera was performed during the early stage of SARS, it was

217

not possible to determine the maximum antibody titer, as this would be expected to occur

218

approximately 4 months after the onset of the outbreak.19 Knowledge of the persistence and

219

level of antibodies against SARS-CoV, particularly neutralizing antibodies, is important for

220

evaluating the immune protection duration and vaccine efficacy. Neutralizing antibodies are

221

normally tested by viral neutralization tests; however, as manipulation involving live

222

SARS-CoV is prohibited in China in the interest of preventing laboratory-acquired SARS

223

infection and potential outbreaks, an alternative approach was employed to detect specific

224

IgG antibodies using SARS-CoV whole virus as capture antigens, which has been suggested

225

in previous studies to correlate with neutralizing activity16. Moreover, the SARS-CoV N199

226

antigen was used to detect its specific antibody, which has been demonstrated to be specific in

227

clinical diagnosis and SARS-CoV reservoir screening.21 We therefore adopted the testing of

228

IgG against N199, combined with the titer analysis of IgG against the whole virus, to

229

comprehensively evaluate the SARS antibody duration.

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

230

We found that the SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers who were treated with

231

corticosteroids, such as prednisone and methylprednisolone, exhibited lower IgG titers during

232

the early stages of the disease than those who were not treated with corticosteroids (although

233

not significantly for IgG against N199). However, no differences were found between the two

234

groups after 2003, suggesting that corticosteroids may suppress the early production of

235

SARS-CoV IgG antibodies.

236

In our cohort, we found that two healthcare workers might have been misdiagnosed with

237

SARS, as the IgG antibodies against both the whole virus and N199 antigen was persistently

238

lower than the cutoff value, for these two patients. Notably, all the cases enrolled in this study

239

were admitted to the hospital between February and March, 2003, and that all the diagnoses

240

made before WHO’s announcement that SARS-CoV was the causative agent of SARS on

241

April 16, 20031, were based on the epidemiological features, clinical symptoms, and regular

242

laboratory blood tests, because serological and etiological diagnostic methods were not

243

available. Specifically, atypical pneumonia, as it was commonly known prior to adoption of

244

the SARS nomenclature, could also be caused by other pathogens.22 Based on the results of

245

our current 13-year serological follow-up study, it is possible that the two healthcare workers

246

might have been misdiagnosed. Thus, it warrants further investigation to clarify whether these

247

two subjects were non-responders who did not develop anti-SARS-CoV antibodies at all or

248

simply represented misdiagnosed cases. In the latter scenario, the number of SARS cases in

249

the early stage of 2002-2003 SARS outbreak may need to be reassessed. Presently, for the

250

2019-nCoV outbreak, nucleic acid-based assay and particular real time PCR, are the

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

251

mainstream methods for etiological diagnosis. However, the sensitivity and specificity of

252

these assays need careful evaluation, because any false positive or negative results might be

253

harmful to the subjects.

254

During the SARS outbreak, the typical SARS patients mainly presented with antibodies

255

positive for SARS-CoV, fever, and symptoms of respiratory tract infections. Additionally,

256

there was a small group of asymptomatic SARS-CoV-nfected subjects, who only presented

257

with antibodies positive for SARS-CoV, but showed an absence of clinical symptoms.23-25. In

258

this study, we found that four subjects had an abnormal increase in the titers of SARS-CoV

259

antibodies during the follow-up. In contrast, the titers of SARS-CoV antibodies in most of the

260

other healthcare workers appeared to decrease slowly. It is unclear if these four healthcare

261

workers were reinfected with SARS-CoV or other coronaviruses with no signs or symptoms.

262

Thus, further investigation is needed to clarify whether these healthcare workers elicited IgG

263

response by SARS-CoV or other coronaviruses. In the former situation, the novel mechanism

264

of IgG generation without the clinical SARS symptoms needs to be elucidated.

265

Although IgG against SARS-CoV declined from 2003 to 2015 gradually, IgG levels in

266

SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers were significantly higher than those in the

267

non-infected healthcare workers control group in 2015. The infected cases enrolled into the

268

study in 2015, exhibited detectable IgG against whole virus, and the positive rate was ~60%.

269

For IgG against N199, the positive rate was ~30% in 2015. Moreover, results of the

270

exponential decay curve revealed that IgG antibodies against the whole virus were positive

271

throughout the 13-year follow-up, while IgG antibodies against N199 were negative only in

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

272

2015.

273

Collectively, based on our results, we can infer that the IgG against SARS-CoV can persist at

274

least for 12 years. Presently, we are unaware whether the persistent IgG antibodies possess

275

virus neutralization activities and can provide complete protection against SARS-CoV

276

infection or cross protection against the new betacoronavirus, 2019-nCoV. From previous

277

studies, we predicted that the presence of IgG antibodies could at least provide a partial

278

protection against coronavirus infection. These data will be valuable for better understanding

279

the immune mechanisms and vaccine development strategies against SARS-CoV and

280

2019-nCoV, therefore being helpful for responses against the ongoing coronavirus outbreak.

281

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

282
283
284

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

285

We thanks collaborators participating in sample collection during the cohort study. This work

286

is supported by Guangdong Province Key Area R & D Plan Project (2018B020241002).

287
288
289
290

AUTHORS’ CONTRIBUTION

291
292

J. Lu designed the study, X. Guo, Z. Guo performed the ELISA tests, Z. Duan collected samples, Z.

293

Chen analyzed the data and revised the manuscript. G. Wang, Y. Lu and M. Li participated in data

294

analysis.

295
296
297
298

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

299

References

300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339

1.

Peiris JS, Yuen KY, Osterhaus AD, Stohr K. The severe acute respiratory syndrome. N Engl J

Med 2003;349:2431-41.
2.

Drosten C, Gunther S, Preiser W, et al. Identification of a novel coronavirus in patients with

severe acute respiratory syndrome. N Engl J Med 2003;348:1967-76.
3.

Xu C, Wang J, Wang L, Cao C. Spatial pattern of severe acute respiratory syndrome in-out flow

in 2003 in Mainland China. BMC Infect Dis 2014;14:721.
4.

Al-Ahdal MN, Al-Qahtani AA, Rubino S. Coronavirus respiratory illness in Saudi Arabia. J Infect

Dev Ctries 2012;6:692-4.
5.

Centers for Disease C, Prevention. Prevalence of IgG antibody to SARS-associated coronavirus in

animal traders--Guangdong Province, China, 2003. MMWR Morbidity and mortality weekly report
2003;52:986-7.
6.

Hsin DH, Macer DR. Heroes of SARS: professional roles and ethics of health care workers. J

Infect 2004;49:210-5.
7.

Chen WQ, Lu CY, Wong TW, et al. Anti-SARS-CoV immunoglobulin G in healthcare workers,

Guangzhou, China. Emerg Infect Dis 2005;11:89-94.
8.

Organization WH. China's latest SARS outbreak has been contained, but biosafety concerns

remain - Update 7, 18 May 2004. 2007.
9.

Kondro W. Canadian officials watch SARS-like mystery bug. Lancet 2003;362:714.

10. Guan Y, Zheng BJ, He YQ, et al. Isolation and characterization of viruses related to the SARS
coronavirus from animals in southern China. Science 2003;302:276-8.
11. Ge XY, Li JL, Yang XL, et al. Isolation and characterization of a bat SARS-like coronavirus that
uses the ACE2 receptor. Nature 2013;503:535-8.
12. Fields B, Knipe D, Howley P. Fields virology. 5th. Philadelphia: Wolters Kluwer
Health/Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 2007.
13. Li F, Li W, Farzan M, Harrison SC. Structure of SARS coronavirus spike receptor-binding
domain complexed with receptor. Science 2005;309:1864-8.
14. Zaki AM, van Boheemen S, Bestebroer TM, Osterhaus AD, Fouchier RA. Isolation of a novel
coronavirus from a man with pneumonia in Saudi Arabia. N Engl J Med 2012;367:1814-20.
15. Memish ZA, Cotten M, Meyer B, et al. Human infection with MERS coronavirus after exposure
to infected camels, Saudi Arabia, 2013. Emerg Infect Dis 2014;20:1012-5.
16. Liu L, Xie J, Sun J, et al. Longitudinal profiles of immunoglobulin G antibodies against severe
acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus components and neutralizing activities in recovered patients.
Scandinavian journal of infectious diseases 2011;43:515-21.
17. Liu W, Fontanet A, Zhang PH, et al. Two-year prospective study of the humoral immune response
of patients with severe acute respiratory syndrome. J Infect Dis 2006;193:792-5.
18. Xie SY, Zeng G, Xia SC, et al. A three-year follow-up study on sera specific antibody in severe
acute respiratory syndrome cases after the onset of illness. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi
2007;28:343-5.
19. Cao WC, Liu W, Zhang PH, Zhang F, Richardus JH. Disappearance of antibodies to
SARS-associated coronavirus after recovery. N Engl J Med 2007;357:1162-3.
18

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356

20. Wang H, Jiang S, Wang E, Zhou X, Li Y, Zhao M. Follow-up study on serological detection of
anti-SARS-CoV IgG/IgM antibody and its significance. Infectious Disease Information 2009:235-7.
21. Guo ZM, Lu JH, Han WY, et al. Comparison of effectiveness of whole viral, N and N199 proteins,
by ELISA for the rapid diagnosis of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus. Chinese Medical
Journal 2007;120:2195-9.
22. Liu YN, Tian Q, Hu H, et al. Misdiagnostic analysis of clinically diagnosed severe acute
respiratory syndrome after following up 197 convalescent patients. Chin Med J (Engl)
2005;118:1487-9.
23. Wilder-Smith A, Teleman MD, Heng BH, Earnest A, Ling AE, Leo YS. Asymptomatic SARS
coronavirus infection among healthcare workers, Singapore. Emerg Infect Dis 2005;11:1142-5.
24. Woo PC, Lau SK, Tsoi HW, et al. Relative rates of non-pneumonic SARS coronavirus infection
and SARS coronavirus pneumonia. Lancet 2004;363:841-5.
25. Ip M, Chan PK, Lee N, et al. Seroprevalence of antibody to severe acute respiratory syndrome
(SARS)-associated coronavirus among health care workers in SARS and non-SARS medical wards.
Clin Infect Dis 2004;38:e116-8.
26. Deng W, Wang Y, Liu Z, Cheng H, Xue Y. HemI: a toolkit for illustrating heatmaps. PLoS One
2014;9:e111988.

357
358
359

19

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

360
361

362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375

Figure 1. Temporal changes in IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV whole virus and N199 in
SARS-Cov-infected healthcare workers
(A) The levels of IgG antibodies using SARS-CoV whole virus as antigen for ELISA detection. The
boxplot displays the IgG titers of the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles. The whiskers extend to the most
extreme data point <1.5 times the inter-quartile range. The cutoff value (red lines) was defined at 0.19
according to the manufacturer’s instructions for the SARS-CoV whole virus ELISA kit. Eighty samples
lost during follow up were estimated for their reading values using exponential regression of curve
estimation method (The same as below). (B) Levels of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV N199. The
cutoff value (red lines) was calculated as follows: cutoff = mean of OD450nm from 52 general population
serum samples +3×standard deviations, which gave a value of 0.40. (C) The dynamics of IgG against
SARS-CoV whole virus of each individual, from 2003 to 2015, illustrated by heatmap (HemI 1.0,
Heatmap Illustrator).26 (D) The dynamics of IgG against SARS-CoV N199 of each individual from
20

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

376
377
378
379

2003 to 2015.

21

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389

Figure 2. Population profiles of IgG against SARS-CoV whole virus and N199 from 2003 to 2015
(A) Predicted mean (red line) with 95% confidence limits (blue lines) of IgG against whole virus in the
cohort from 2003 to 2015. Eighty specimens lost during follow up were estimated for the missing
values using the exponential regression of curve estimation method (The same as Panel B). (B)
Predicted mean with 95% confidence limits of IgG against N199 in the cohort from 2003 to 2015. (C)
Proportions of different ranges of IgG against SARS-CoV whole virus in the SARS-CoV-infected
healthcare workers. (D) Proportions of different ranges of IgG against SARS-CoV N199 in
SARS-CoV-infected healthcare workers.

22

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403

Figure 3. Distributions and differences of IgG in SARS-infected and non-infected healthcare
workers (control)
(A) The distributions and differences of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV whole virus between all
SARS-CoV-infected (n=46) and non-infected healthcare workers (control) enrolled in 2015 (n=40).
The boxplot displays the IgG titers of the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles. The whiskers extend to the
most extreme data point <1.5 times the inter-quartile range. The red line represents the cutoff value
(0.19). (B) The distributions and differences of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV N199 between all
the SARS-CoV-infected (n=46) and non-infected healthcare worker controls enrolled in 2015 (n=40).
The red line is the cutoff value (0.40). P value of < 0.05 (two-tai) is considered to be statistically
significant (*).

23

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

404
405

406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415

Figure 4. Differences of IgG titers between SARS patients treated with or without corticosteroids
Difference in IgG titers against SARS-CoV whole virus (A) or SARS-CoV N199 antigen (B) between
SARS-infected healthcare workers treated with or without corticosteroids. The boxplot displays the
IgG titers of the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles. The whiskers extend to the most extreme data point
<1.5 times the inter-quartile range. The red line represents the cutoff value (0.19, Figure 4A; 0.40,
Figure 4B), P value of < 0.05 (two-tai) is considered to be statistically significant (*).

24

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

416
417
418

Supplementary Appendix

419
420

Figure S1. Temporal changes in IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV whole virus

421

and N199 in the SARS-infected healthcare workers (80 predicted missing values

422

excluded)

423

(A) Level of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV whole virus. The boxplot displays the IgG tiers of
25

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

424

the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles. The whiskers extend to the most extreme data point <1.5

425

times the inter-quartile range. The cutoff value (red line) was defined as a value of 0.19 according

426

to the manufacturer’s instruction of the SARS-CoV whole virus ELISA kit. (B) Levels of IgG

427

antibodies against SARS-CoV N199. The cutoff value (red line) was calculated as follows: cutoff

428

= mean of OD450nm from 52 general population serum samples+3X standard deviations, which

429

gave a value of 0.40. (C and D) dynamics of IgG titers against SARS-CoV whole virus (C) or

430

SARS-CoV N199 (D) of each individual from 2003 to 2015 by the method described above.

431

Gray blanks represent the serum samples lost.

432
433

26

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.02.12.20021386; this version posted February 14, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in
perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-ND 4.0 International license .

434

435
436

Figure S2. Predicted means of titers of IgG against SARS-CoV whole virus and

437

N199 during 2003 - 2015 (80 predicted missing values excluded)

438

Predicted means (red lines) and actual values (green solid circles) with 95% confidence limits

439

(blue lines) of IgG titers against the whole virus (A) and N199 antigen (B) in the cohort from 2003

440

to 2015.

441
442
443
444
445
446

27

