bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

1

1

Assessment of a western blot signal for the Bcnt/Cfdp1, a tentative component of

2

Srcap chromatin remodeling complex; trial to overcome off-target problems

3

Shintaro Iwashita1*, Takehiro Suzuki2, Yoshimitsu Kiriyama1, Naoshi Dohmae2,

4

Yoshiharu Ohka1, Si-Young Song1, Kentaro Nakashima1,*

5
6

Affiliations:

7

1.

8
9
10

Kagawa School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokushima Bunri University, Shido
1314-1, Sanuki, Kagawa 769-2193, Japan

2.

Biomolecular Characterization Unit, RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource
Science, Saitama 351-0198, Japan

11
12

* Corresponding authors:

13

Shintaro Iwashita

14

E-mail: siwast@kph.bunri-u.ac.jp

15

ORCID: 0000-0001-8086-9192

16

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

2

17

Kentaro Nakashima

18

E-mail: nkentaro@kph.bunri-u.ac.jp

19

ORCID: 0000-0002-7881-5686

20
21

Competing Interests: All authors declare no competing interests.

22

Funding: No applicable funding.

23

All authors approved the final version of the manuscript.

24

Author Contributions:

25

Conceived, designed, performed the experiments, and wrote the manuscript: SI NK.

26

Performed mass analysis and interpretation: TS ND. Performed the experiments and

27

discussion: YK. Contributed reagents and discussion: YO. Performed the experiments

28

and wrote the manuscript: SYS.

29

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

3

30

Abstract

31

The BCNT (Bucentaur) protein family is characterized by a conserved amino

32

acid sequence at the C-terminus (BCNT-C domain) and plays an essential role in gene

33

expression and chromosomal maintenance in fungi, fly, and chicken. The mammalian

34

Bucentaur/Craniofacial developmental protein 1 (Bcnt/Cfdp1) is also a tentative

35

component of the Srcap (SNF2-Related CBP Activator Protein) chromatin remodeling

36

complex, but little is known about its properties, partly because there are few suitable

37

antibodies to detect the endogenous protein. We used multiple anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1

38

antibodies against unrelated immunogens derived from BCNT-C domain and

39

mouse-specific N-terminal peptide. To assign western blot signals and evaluate these

40

antibodies, we utilized a stem cell line from mutant embryos of mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1,

41

whose mRNA expression levels were reduced to 75% of the parental cells. In western

42

blotting of these mutant and parental cell extracts with the anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 antibodies,

43

mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1 was detected as a doublet of approximately 45 kDa. LC-MS/MS

44

analysis of the corresponding doublet for the Flag-tagged mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1

45

constitutively expressed in T-REx 293 cell (a HEK293 derivative) exhibited that the

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

4

46

upper band was much more phosphorylated than the lower band and that there was

47

preferential Ser phosphorylation in the WESF motif in the BCNT-C domain. Western

48

blot with these validated antibodies indicated a preferential expression of Bcnt/Cfdp1 in

49

the early stages of brain development in mouse and rat, which is consistent with the

50

expression of Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA. This article describes the evaluation of

51

anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 antibodies, including a scheme to prepare a potential negative control

52

for western blot, and discusses immune-cross reactions with off-target proteins,

53

particularly immunoreaction probabilities.

54
55

Introduction

56

The BCNT family members in yeast, Drosophila, and chicken have been shown to

57

play essential functions in gene expression and chromosomal maintenance [1].

58

Mammalian Bcnt/Cfdp1 is also presumed to be a tentative component of the SRCAP

59

(SNF2-Related CBP Activator Protein) chromatin remodeling complex (Human soluble

60

protein

61

http://human.med.utoronto.ca/php/search_complex.php?clusterid=595) based on the

complexes;

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

5

62

analysis of Swc5, a budding yeast ortholog of Bcnt/Cfdp1, in Swr1 (yeast Srcap)

63

chromatin complex [2-4]. Although Swc5 is not integrated with the Swr1 complex, it

64

participates in activation of the remodeler ATPase and in the ATP-dependent histone

65

exchange reaction, which replaces nucleosomal H2A–H2B with H2A.Z–H2B dimers by

66

recruiting the variant H2A.Z in transcription and DNA repair [5-7]. Swc5 is not essential

67

for survival, but its deletion mutant swc5Δ cells result in genetic instability,

68

hypersensitivity to drugs, and transcriptional misregulation because Swr1 binds to

69

chromatin but lacks histone replacement activity [8][The Saccharomyces Genome

70

Database https://www.yeastgenome.org/].

71

The protein structure of the Bcnt family members generally consists of an acidic

72

N-terminal region, a highly conserved C-terminal region with about 80 amino acids

73

(BCNT-C domain), and a hydrophilic region between them (S1 Fig and [1]). Recently,

74

the BCNT-C domain of Swc5 was found to be essential for the histone exchange

75

reaction [9]. On the other hand, a point mutant of the Drosophila ortholog, Yeti, which

76

entirely lacks the BCNT-C domain, shows substantial chromosomal abnormalities,

77

resulting in lethality before pupation [10]. Thus, the metazoan Bcnt/Cfdp1 is essential

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

6

78

for survival in contrast to the yeast swc5. Furthermore, the chicken ortholog CENP-29

79

has been identified to be a kinetochore-associated protein [11]. Given a report that

80

CENP-B protects centromere chromatin integrity by promoting histone deposition [12],

81

these results imply that the Bcnt members may play a broader role in the maintenance of

82

the structure and function of the chromosome.

83

A RNA sequence analysis, as shown by the dramatic influence caused by genetic

84

mutations of swc5 in fission yeast [13], has revealed complex mechanisms and dynamic

85

processes such as embryonic development and stress adaptation. However, recent

86

studies have shown that there exists discordance between mRNA and protein expression

87

in such dynamic processes and argue that analysis at the transcriptional level is

88

insufficient to predict protein levels [14]. While these processes are quite complex,

89

involving both noncoding RNAs and antisense RNAs, the western blot analysis is the

90

most straightforward way to examine changes in target molecules at the protein level.

91

Because the Bcnt family members may function preferentially in these dynamic

92

processes, analysis of their protein dynamics is essential. However, most of the

93

currently available antibodies against Bcnt/Cfdp1 are challenging to assign the correct

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

7

94

signal in western blot analysis.

95

We previously characterized human BCNT/CFDP1 (hBCNT/CFDP1) using a

96

constitutively expressed His-tag molecule [15] and the custom-made antibody generated

97

against an 18-mer peptide (EELAIHNRGKEGYIERKA) located in the BCNT-C

98

domain (anti-BCNT-C Ab) [16]. Despite a calculated mass of 34.9 kDa (33.6 kDa plus

99

His-tag) of His-hBCNT/CFDP1, the immunoreactive signal was detected around 50

100

kDa as a doublet band on SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS/PAGE), and

101

we showed that the difference in its apparent molecular mobility is mainly due to the

102

acidic stretch located in the N-terminal region and Ser250 phosphorylation in the

103

BCNT-C domain [15]. However, we failed to identify the endogenous hBCNT/CFDP1

104

due to high background caused by anti-His Ab reactive proteins and to accurately assess

105

the specificity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab to endogenous hBCNT/CFDP1. Furthermore, we

106

recently found that the anti-BCNT-C Ab cross-reacts with a completely unrelated target,

107

glutamine synthetase (NP_001035564.1; EC 6.3.1.2, which is also known as

108

γ-glutamate: ammonia ligase)[17]. In this paper, we evaluate and validate the

109

anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs and assign western blot signals using various target-related

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

8

110

materials, including Bcnt/Cfdp1 knockdown cells. We also present a scheme to prepare

111

a potential negative control for western blot to detect Bcnt/Cfdp1. Then, we

112

demonstrate high expression of Bcnt/Cfdp1 at an early developmental stage of the

113

brains of mice and rats by using the above-evaluated Abs. We also discuss off-target

114

proteins in terms of immune reaction probability based on the analyses to solve the

115

tasks of the present study.

116
117

Results

118

Detection of Flag-tagged mBcnt as a doublet band

119

To characterize mammalian endogenous Bcnt/Cfdp1, we first expressed

120

Flag-tagged mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1 (F-mBcnt) in T-REx 293 cells (a derivative of HEK

121

293) as a reference. We did this because although we previously expressed exogenous

122

His-tagged hBCNT/CFDP1, the relatively high background by cross-reacting proteins

123

with anti-His tag Ab made it difficult to assign the signals in western blot [15].

124

Therefore, we used Flag-tagging to expect the lower tag specific background, though

125

having negatively charged sequence (DYKDDDDK).

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

9

126

The mBcnt/Cfdp1 is composed of 295 amino acids, which is four amino acids less

127

than the human counterpart. The N-terminal region has low homology between mouse

128

and human (75%) and can be used as species-specific immunogens, while the

129

C-terminal 82 amino acid sequence of the BCNT-C domain is identical except for two

130

amino acid residues (S1 Fig, [1]). We isolated T-REx cell colonies that constitutively

131

expressed F-mBcnt using G418 selection. Both the number and size of the

132

antibiotic-resistant colonies from F-mBcnt transfectants were significantly lower and

133

smaller than those from F-multi-cloning site (F-MCS) transfectants as a control. After

134

growing each colony in the presence of G418, the extracts were prepared and evaluated

135

by western blot using either anti-Flag Ab or anti-BCNT-C Ab (Fig 1, S1 Fig). Whereas

136

all signals with anti-Flag Ab showed doublet bands, the anti-BCNT-C Ab detected one

137

and three bands in the extracts from the F-MCS-derived and F-mBcnt derived colonies,

138

respectively (S1 Fig). Compared with the doublet pattern between transiently expressing

139

cells and constitutively expressing cells, the upper band (Upper) in the transient

140

expression was significantly stronger than that of the constitutive expression (Fig 1).

141

These features are similar to those of His-tagged hBCNT/CFDP1, as previously

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

10

142

reported [15].

143
144

Fig 1. F-mBcnt expression as a doublet band and isolation of each band.

145

(A) Flag-tagged mBcnt was detected as a doublet in both transient and constitutive

146

expression. The F-mBcnt or F-multi-cloning site (MCS) in the vector was expressed in

147

T-REx cells, and the extracts were prepared after culturing for 46 h as transiently

148

expressed samples (Lanes: F-MCS and F-mBcnt). In addition, the extract of the E3

149

colony that constitutively expressed F-mBcnt was prepared (~5 x 104 cells). These

150

proteins were subjected to western blot analysis with anti-Flag Ab. The image in this

151

figure is a replica of part of S1 Fig. (B) Isolation of the upper and lower bands from

152

F-mBcnt doublet expressed in the E3 colony. The supernatant of the E3 extract isolated

153

by centrifugation was applied to anti-Flag-tag agarose beads, and the adsorbed fraction

154

was eluted, as shown in S2 Fig. After evaluation of the chromatogram, the more

155

massive Eluate #1 and #2, which had been isolated by sequential elution with Flag

156

peptide, were separated on SDA/PAGE and detected by Coomassie Brilliant Blue

157

staining. The arrows indicate a doublet band.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

11

158
159

Phosphorylation with serine246 preference in the upper band.

160

To reveal the molecular differences between the upper and lower bands, the bands

161

were isolated from lysates of T-Rex-derived E3 cells that constitutively express

162

F-mBcnt using anti-Flag Ab conjugated agarose beads (S2 Fig, Fig 1). Each band

163

excised from the gel was digested with three different proteases—that is,

164

Achromobacter protease I (API), AspN, and chymotrypsin—and each digest was

165

subjected to LC-MS/MS analysis. In the analysis where each digested fragment covered

166

60-67% of the entire F-mBcnt/Cfdp1 sequence, the ratios of the upper to lower bands

167

for each fragment amounts were listed (S1 Table). Furthermore, we focused on

168

phosphorylation sites and presented them systematically (Fig. 2). The upper band is

169

much more phosphorylated than the lower band, and, in particular, the serine 246th

170

mBcnt/Cfdp1 that corresponds to the S250 of hBCNT/CFDP1 is apparently the

171

preferential site of phosphorylation. Their characteristics are very similar to those of

172

His-tagged hBCNT/CFDP1, as previously described [15].

173

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

12

174

Fig 2. Differential phosphorylation between the upper and lower bands of

175

F-mBcnt.

176

Top panel: Molecular architecture of Flag-tagged mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1. The protein

177

shown in a large outline comprises the acidic N-terminal region, Lys/Glu/Pro-rich 40

178

amino acids (named intramolecular repeat [IR], white box), and a highly conserved

179

C-terminal region (BCNT-C domain, blue box) in addition to the Flag-tag at the

180

N-terminus (yellow box). The numbers above or below the outline show the amino acid

181

residues of the protein with (below) or without (above) the Flag tag, respectively. Three

182

black bars A, B, and C indicate the regions of focused phosphorylation sites. Each upper

183

and lower band of F-mBcnt from Fig. 1B were digested with three proteases (API,

184

AspN, and Chymotrypsin) and subjected to LC-MS/MS analysis. All of the identified

185

peptides are listed in Table S1, and their typical phosphorylated fragments and their

186

unphosphorylated counterparts are represented. Each top amino acid sequence in A, B,

187

and C represents each focused region, and the numbers at the N-terminus and the

188

C-terminus correspond to the amino acid residue of mBcnt, respectively. Xs are

189

different amino acid residues from human BCNT/CFDP1. Red letters show the

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

13

190

identified phosphorylated sites. Red bars indicate the ratios of the amounts of identified

191

phosphorylated fragments in the upper band compared to those in the lower band, and

192

blue bars show the corresponding ratios of their unphosphorylated fragments,

193

respectively. The numbers of peptide-spectrum match (PSM) values are presented in

194

parentheses.

195
196

Evaluation of the anti-BCNT-C antibody

197

We had assumed that the ~50-kDa signal above the F-mBcnt doublet detected by

198

anti-BCNT-C Ab corresponds to hBCNT/CFDP1 from previous results [15]. However,

199

the band migration was judged to be too slow on SDS/PAGE, because F-mBcnt is

200

expected to be a slow migration due to the acid Flag tag. Therefore, we reexamined the

201

previous data of His-hBCNT/CFDP1 [15] in the western signal by introducing

202

anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs. We chose the two commercial anti-BCNT/CFDP1Abs from the

203

following criteria; the description of the immunogen is clear and the candidate signal is

204

detected in a region significantly smaller than 50 kDa in western blot. They are

205

26636-1-AP9 (Proteintech,

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

14

206

https://www.ptglab.com/products/CFDP1-Antibody-26636-1-AP.htm) and

207

A305-624A-M (Bethyl,

208

https://www.bethyl.com/product/A305-624A-M/CFDP1+Antibody). According to each

209

catalog, the former Ab has been generated using the larger immunogen (172-299

210

hBCNT/CFDP1); it detects a single band with 45-50 kDa, and the specificity is

211

validated by siRNA knockdown. The latter Ab recognizes the region of 249-299

212

hBCNT/CFDP1, has immunoprecipitation ability and detects ~48, ~37, and ~19 kDa

213

signals. However, we found that A305-624A-M detected only a major signal around 48

214

kDa, whereas 26636-1-AP9 revealed other signals, including a signal of a ~50 kDa (as

215

shown later). Based on the results, we compared western signal patterns between the

216

anti-BCNT-C Ab and A305-624A-M using cell lysates of parent T-REx and its

217

derivative G11 clone that constitutively expresses His-tagged hBCNT/CFDP1 [15].

218

Both Abs efficiently recognized exogenously expressed His-hBCNT/CFDP1 in the G11

219

extract but showed distinctly different patterns in the T-REx extract. It is noteworthy

220

that the anti-BCNT-C Ab reacted to a band above the doublet detected with

221

A305-624A-M (Fig 3, left panel). The difference between the two patterns was

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

15

222

confirmed by reprobing with each of the replaced Abs (Fig 3, right panel). Whereas the

223

anti-BCNT-C Ab revealed a few other bands, A305-624A-M detected a doublet but not

224

the bands of ~37 and ~19 kDa demonstrated in the catalog. These results strongly

225

suggest that the distinct ~ 50-kDa band detected with anti-BCNT-C Ab as shown in S1

226

Fig. is an off-target signal.

227
228

Fig 3. Comparative assessment of western blot signals between the anti-BCNT-C

229

antibody and A305-624A-M.

230

The supernatants (SUPs) and their pellets (PPTs) of T-REx or its G11 cells (His-tagged

231

human BCNT/CFDP1 constitutively expressing clone) were prepared from each cell

232

lysate by centrifugation at 25,000 x g. Equal amounts of protein (20 μg) were subjected

233

to western blotting analysis with either anti-BCNT-C Ab or A305-624A-M (left panel).

234

After obtaining their images, each filter was stripped and re-probed with the exchanged

235

Abs (right panel).

236
237

Assigning the candidate signal of mBcnt/Cfdp1 using ES

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

16

238

mutant cells

239

To assign the appropriate western blot signal of endogenous Bcnt/Cfdp1 and

240

evaluate its Abs, we utilized a mouse embryonic stem (ES) cell line that is listed as

241

homozygous mBcnt/Cfdp1 mutant cells (i.e., double-knockout cell line) (Cfdp1-K1)[18].

242

The gene trap vector is inserted in mBcnt/Cfdp1 intron 5 (Fig 4A) (GenBank: accession

243

number AG999723.1). As the BCNT-C domain is encoded by exons 6 and 7 (Fig 4A),

244

the Cfdp1-K1 cell lysate could be used as a potential negative control for the validation

245

of Abs generated with the BCNT-C domain as an immunogen, assuming the cells are

246

homozygous mBcnt/Cfdp1 mutants.

247
248

Fig 4. Assigning western blot signals of endogenous Bcnt/Cfdp1 using mutant ES

249

cells.

250

(A) Location of the inserted gene trap vector in the Cfdp1-K1 cell. Mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1

251

consists of 7 exons, and the dashed lines show their corresponding regions to

252

Bcnt/Cfdp1. A red box indicates the gene trap vector. Two black bars under Bcnt/Cfdp1

253

predict each location of immunogens for Ab production of anti-BCNT-C Ab (1) and

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

17

254

A305-624A-M (2), respectively. (B) RT-PCR analysis of Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA from

255

Cfdp1-K1 and its parental cells. Using each cDNA from Cfdp1-K1 (Mutant), vdR2-4

256

(WT), or mouse brain (Contl), RT-PCR was carried out to examine the products that

257

correspond to (a) the full ORF of mBcnt/Cfdp1 (928 bp) and (b) the fused region of

258

mBcnt exons 1-5 and a part of hygromycin phosphotransferase in the gene trap vector

259

(948 bp), respectively. The products and DNA size ladder markers were accessed by

260

separation in agarose gel, followed by staining with ethidium bromide. (C) Assessment

261

of western blot signal of endogenous Bcnt/Cfdp1 using extracts of Cfdp1-K1 and its

262

parental cells. Cell extracts from equal number (~2 x 105 cells) of vdR2-4 (WT) or

263

Cfdp1-K1 (Mutant) cells that had been serially passaged in the presence [Mutant (2)] or

264

absence [Mutant (1)] of G418 and puromycin were subjected to western blot analysis

265

with either anti-BCNT-C antibody (left filter) or 305-624A-M (right filter), respectively.

266

A red arrow indicates a candidate signal of endogenous mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1.

267
268

First, we confirmed whether Cfdp1-K1 is knocked out on the expression of

269

Bcnt/Cfdp1 by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). After

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

18

270

subculturing in the presence or absence of G418 and puromycin, which can delete the

271

feeder layer cells, we prepared cDNAs from Cfdp1-K1 and vdR2-4 cells; the latter is a

272

parent cell line of Cfdp1-K1. We then examined the target mBcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA by

273

RT-PCR and analyzed their products by DNA sequencing. In the cDNA from Cfdp1-K1,

274

we detected PCR products corresponding to not only the fusion gene coding Bcnt/Cfdp1

275

exons 1-4 and hygromycin phosphotransferase derived from the gene trap vector but

276

also the full-length mBcnt/Cfdp1 ORF (Fig 4B). This result indicated that the gene trap

277

vector was inserted adequately into intron 5, but Cfdp1-K1 cells were not Bcnt/Cfdp1

278

double knockout. Then, a comparative transcriptome analysis by NovaSeq 6000 was

279

carried out between Cfdp1-K1 (mutant) and vdR2-4 (wild-type), and it has been shown

280

that 694 genes were differentially expressed with a 2-fold difference, 188 genes were

281

upregulated, and 506 genes were downregulated (S1 Appendex and S2 Table). Among

282

them, Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA in the Cfdp1-K1 cells was reduced to 74.4% compared to the

283

parent cells (101.75 vs. 136.79 FPKM). Besides, the mRNAs of several housekeeping

284

genes that are frequently used as internal controls, the flanking genes Bcar1/Cas and

285

Tmem 170A, were also significantly altered (S3 Table.).

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

19

286

Next, we examined whether anti-BCNT-C and A305-624A-M Abs detected the

287

differential expression of Bcnt/Cfdp1 between mutant and parental cells in western blot

288

analysis. Of the several bands detected by the anti-BCNT-C Ab, one ~45-kDa band was

289

significantly reduced in the Cfdp1-K1 cells compared to the band intensity in vdR2-4

290

cells by both Abs (Fig 4C). These results suggest that the ~45-kDa band is a candidate

291

signal derived from endogenous mBcnt/Cfdp1 in mouse ES cells.

292
293

Validating anti-mBcnt-N Ab and assigning the mBcnt/Cfdp1

294

signal

295

As mentioned earlier, whereas the C-terminal region of BCNT members is highly

296

conserved, the N-terminal region is variable among species. To further investigate

297

whether the ~45-kDa band was a valid signal, we generated an anti-mBcnt/Cfdp1 Ab

298

using a mouse-specific N-terminal peptide consisting of 16 amino acids as an

299

immunogen (named anti-mBcnt-N Ab, Fig 5A).

300
301

Fig 5. Validation of anti-mBcnt-N antibody.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

20

302

(A) Amino acid sequence alignment of the immunogen for anti-mBcnt-N Ab generation

303

and its counterparts of rat and bovine. Mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1 is schematically shown in Fig

304

4A. The underlined two red bars present each location of the immunogens for the

305

generation of anti-mBcnt-N Ab and A305-624A-M, respectively. The rat and bovine

306

counterparts are aligned, and red letters indicate the different amino acids from the

307

immunogen peptide. (B) Equal amounts of mouse and rat brain extracts (15 or 20 μg)

308

and the enriched bovine placenta extract (30 or 40 μg) were separated on SDS/PAGE

309

followed by western blot analyses with either anti-mBcnt-N Ab (left filter) or

310

A305-624A-M (right filter). Each first Ab was used at a final concentration of 500

311

ng/mL and 1 μg/mL, respectively.

312
313

While the rat Bcnt/Cfdp1 has the same sequence as the immunogenic peptide

314

derived from mBcnt/Cfdp1, the bovine counterpart has an entirely different amino acid

315

sequence (Fig 5A), implying that the probability of cross-reactivity with anti-mBcnt-N

316

Ab was expected to be very low. Indeed, we could use rat and bovine tissue extracts as

317

potential positive or negative controls, respectively, to evaluate anti-mBcnt-N Ab

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

21

318

specificity concerning endogenous Bcnt/Cfdp1 in western blot analysis. However, since

319

it was difficult to obtain a bovine source containing high Bcnt/Cfdp1 content, we

320

concentrated an extract of bovine placenta with Phos-tag agarose [19], which allows

321

enrichment of phosphorylated protein (S3 Fig), and used it for the western blot analysis

322

(Fig 5).

323

As a result, while A305-624A-M detected a ~45-kDa signal in both tissue extracts,

324

anti-mBcnt-N Ab detected the band in mice and rats but not in cattle. This result

325

strongly suggests that anti-mBcnt-N Ab specifically recognizes endogenous

326

mBcnt/Cfdp1 despite the fact that a nonspecific cross-reaction with unknown proteins

327

was observed. We further confirmed that the ~45-kDa signal was a valid target signal

328

using another anti-hBCNT/CFDP1 Ab, 26636-1-AP (S4 Fig). Finally, we performed

329

western blot analysis with two Cfdp1-K1 cell lysates prepared after passage in the

330

presence or absence of G418 / puromycin using anti-mBcnt-N Ab or A305-624A-M.

331

The results showed that both Abs recognized a ~45-kDa band with significantly reduced

332

intensity in both Cfdp1-K1 lysates as compared to that in the parental cell lysate (Fig 6).

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

22

333

From these results, we concluded that the ~45-kDa signal is derived from the

334

endogenous mBcnt/Cfdp1.

335
336

Fig 6. Assignment of western blot mBcnt/Cfdp1 signals.

337

Equal amounts of cell extract (20 μg protein) of vdR2-4 (WT) or Cfdp1-K1 (Mutant)

338

cells serially passaged in the presence [Mutant (2)] or absence [Mutant (1)] of G418 and

339

puromycin were subjected to western blot analysis with anti-mBcnt-N Ab (left panel) or

340

A305-624A-M (right filter). A red arrow indicates a signal of mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1. A

341

band detected with anti-mBcnt-N Ab at ~75 kDa (shown as *) is probably the fusion

342

protein of a part of mBcnt (derived from exon 1-5) and hygromycin phosphotransferase.

343

It is 63.9 kDa as a calculated molecular mass but may run slowly on SDS/PAGE due to

344

the acid stretch located in the N-terminal region of the mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1.

345
346

To confirm whether the ~45-kDa band detected by the both Abs is identical, the

347

filter that had been detected with anti-mBcnt-N Ab was reprobed with A305-624A-M.

348

The result indicated that the signal was identical.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

23

349
350

Expression of mBcnt/Cfdp1 in the early stage of brain

351

development

352

RNA profiling data of the mouse and rat ENCODE (The Encyclopedia of DNA

353

Elements) projects show that Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA expresses ubiquitously and

354

preferentially in the early stage of development. However, recent studies have revealed

355

pervasive discordance between mRNA levels and protein levels, especially in

356

embryonic development [14]. Therefore, we examined mBcnt/Cfdp1 expression in the

357

cerebrum of mouse and rat, focusing on developmental stages using the evaluated

358

anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs above. The results showed that mBcnt/Cfdp1 preferentially

359

expresses in the early stages and significantly decreased according to the postnatal

360

stages in the rat cerebrum (Fig 7).

361
362

Fig 7. Bcnt/Cfdp1 expression of rodent brain in the early stage of development.

363

Equal amounts (20 μg of protein) of cerebrum extracts of the embryo around 17 days

364

(E17) and P0 mouse and rat postnatal day samples (denoted by P# on the top of each

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

24

365

lane) were loaded and subjected to western blotting analysis with anti-mBcnt-N Ab (left

366

panel) or A305-624A-M (middle panel). The latter filter was re-probed with another

367

anti-BCNT/CFDP1 Ab, 26636-1-AP (right panel). The filters were finally stained with

368

Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB) to check the amounts of loading proteins (bottom

369

panel).

370
371

Discussion

372

In this paper, we assigned the endogenous mBcnt/Cfdp1 signal in western blot,

373

validated anti-mBcnt/Cfdp1Abs by utilizing various target-related materials, and

374

showed that mouse and rat Bcnt/Cfdp1 expressed preferentially at early stages of brain

375

development. Moreover, based on the problems encountered when attempting to solve

376

these tasks in the present study, we discuss immune-cross reactions with off-target

377

proteins from the viewpoint of immune reaction probability.

378

We generated F-mBcnt instead of His-tagged hBCNT/CFDP1 because the latter

379

made it challenging to evaluate the specificity of anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs due to the

380

difficulty to distinguish specific immune-positive signals from the high background of

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

25

381

anti-His tag positive proteins [15]. Indeed, Nono (p54rnb)[20], which contains the

382

HHQHHH sequence in the N-terminus region, could be isolated using anti-His-tag

383

Ab-conjugated beads (S6 Fig). F-mBcnt appeared as a doublet, and the upper band was

384

much more phosphorylated than the lower band-in particular, the phosphorylation of the

385

Ser246 residue in the WESF motif of the BCNT-C domain was characteristic. The

386

mBcnt/Cfdp1 doublet was probably caused by the presence or absence of Ser246

387

phosphorylation because this characteristic phosphorylation is very similar to that of

388

His-tagged hBCNT/CFDP1, as previously described [15]. Though its biological

389

significance is not yet clear, one interesting possibility is that this phosphorylation

390

might be a determinant of the intracellular localization of Bcnt/Cfdp1.

391

We first evaluated a custom-made anti-BCNT-C Ab that detected a distinct

392

band from those detected by anti-Flag Ab in F-mBcnt-expressing cell lysates (S1 Fig).

393

We initially assumed that the band was hBCNT/CFDP1. By introducing another

394

commercially available anti-hBCNT/CFDP1 Ab (i.e., A305-624A-M from Betyl

395

laboratory), we compared the immune-positive signals detected with ant-BCNT-C Ab

396

and found that their patterns were distinctively different in the parental cell extract. On

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

26

397

the other hand, the exogenous hBCNT/CFDP1 in the extract of G11 clone were well

398

recognized by both Abs. Therefore, we utilized a Cfdp1-K1 cell line that has been

399

produced by a library of random mutations introduced by gene trap vector insertion in

400

Bloom-deficient ES cells, selected for populations of homozygous mutant cells

401

following mitotic recombination [18], and was listed as a cell line of mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1

402

homozygous mutant (Japanese Collection of Research Bioresources (JCRB) Cell

403

Bank_AyuK7D01). However, RT-PCR analysis of cDNA from Cfdp1-K1 revealed the

404

presence of mRNA corresponding to the full-length ORF of the mBcnt/Cfdp1. Indeed, a

405

comparative analysis of transcriptome RNA sequencing between Cfdp1-K1 and its

406

parent cells showed that Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA levels were 74.4%. Splicing may efficiently

407

occur by skipping the acceptor site in the trap gene vector, which is located in the intron

408

5 spanning over 50 kb (Fig 4A). Although the Cfdp1-K1 cell line was not Bcnt/Cfdp1

409

double knockout, it is useful as Bcnt/Cfdp1 knockdown mutant cells to detect a strong

410

candidate signal at ~45 kDa. On the other hand, an attempt has been made to generate

411

dog Bcnt/Cfdp1 knockout MDCK (Madin-Darby Canine Kidney) cells by targeting its

412

exon 1 according to the same strategy as the production of β- and γ-catenin double-

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

27

413

knockout cells [21], but the expected cells were not obtained so far (W. Kobayashi,

414

personal communication). Finally, we were able to assign the signal of endogenous

415

mBcnt/Cfdp1 detected by two Abs raised against unrelated immunogens. One of the

416

antigens is a mouse-specific N-terminal peptide, and the other is a peptide of BCNT-C

417

domain, which is highly conserved in mammalian Bcnt/Cfdp1.

418

The following is evidences that the ~45-kDa band is the signal of endogenous

419

Bcnt/Cfdp1 in western blot. First, among several signals detected by the anti-BCNT-C

420

Ab, the ~45-kDa signal was significantly reduced in the western blot of the

421

mBcnt/Cfdp1 mutant cell extract compared to the signal of the parent cell (Fig 4C).

422

Second, the ~45-kDa signal was detected by two other antibodies (i.e., anti-mBcnt-N

423

Ab and A305-624A-M), each of which was generated using mutually unrelated

424

immunogens (Fig 6) as well as another anti-hBCNT/CFDP1 Ab, 26636-1-AP (S4 Fig).

425

We confirmed the specificity of the anti-mBcnt-N Ab concerning the ~45-kDa signal by

426

preparing enriched bovine Bcnt/Cfdp1 with Phos-tag agarose (Fig 5) as a potential

427

negative control in a western blot.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

28

428

The target band at ~45-kDa appears significantly smaller than signals reported by

429

many available anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs, including our custom-made anti-BCNT-C Ab.

430

The molecular behavior of ~50-kDa protein reported with many anti-hBCNT/CFDP1

431

Abs was significantly different from that of endogenous Bcnt/Cfdp1 (S1 Fig and Figs 3

432

and 4C); therefore, the 50-kDa signal is probably a common non-specific band(s). Since

433

we used this anti-BCNT-C Ab, our initial conjectures regarding the 50-kDa signal (refer

434

to abstract in [15]), the 43-kDa signal (glutamine synthetase, [17]) (refer to Fig 3C in

435

[16] and Fig 1B in [22]) determined by western blot analysis, and the intracellular

436

localization by immunostaing (refer to Fig 6b in [23]) were all misdirected. On the other

437

hand, we did not recognize two bands at ~37 and ~19 kDa, which are shown in the

438

catalog of A305-624A-M. Furthermore, although five isoforms of mBcnt/Cfdp1 have

439

been reported (Mus musculus, NCBI Accession No. ID: 23837), we could not identify

440

any isoforms during our western blot analyses.

441

It was evident that the anti-BCNT-C Ab detected a weak signal to the target

442

molecule (Fig 4C). A similarly difficult situation must occur with many Abs, which is

443

considered to be problematic (e.g., [24], [25]). Concerning the time-consuming

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

29

444

validation of anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Ab using western blot, we consider the intrinsic issues

445

that may have led to its inappropriate assignment and how these could be resolved. First,

446

we should use the information of preferential expression of Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA—for

447

example, mouse embryo brain is more suitable than the adult brain as screening samples

448

for its Ab evaluation. Second, although we needed other independent anti-BCNT-C Abs

449

and attempted to prepare them using the N-terminal region as immunogens, we failed to

450

obtain the appropriate Abs that could be utilized at that time. Third, although

451

non-specific band patterns detected by Abs raised against different immunogens are

452

generally not identical, many available anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs including the anti-BCNT-C

453

Ab and 26636-1-AP, commonly detected a relatively strong signal(s) near 50-kDa, and

454

thus resulted in an incorrect assignment. Regarding the second and third points, the

455

properties of Bcnt/Cfdp1 may be related since it mainly consists of structurally

456

disordered regions. It is noteworthy that the epitopes from disordered antigens are

457

smaller than those from the ordered counterparts and that they interact more efficiently

458

with their Abs [26]. Thus, the anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs generated against most parts of the

459

molecule as immunogens may cause cross-reaction with various proteins with high

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

30

460

affinity, resulting in the poor quality of antisera. Fourth, complex migration of

461

Bcnt/Cfdp1 on SDS/PAGE made it challenging to assign a valid signal. BCNT/CFDP1

462

as well as mBcnt/Cfdp1 is expressed as a doublet band and migrates slower on

463

SDS/PAGE than expected from the calculated molecular mass (33.6 kDa of human

464

BCNT/CFDP1 and 32.7 kDa of mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1). This feature may be mainly due to

465

the acid stretch of the N-terminal region and the Ser phosphorylation of the BCNT-C

466

domain [15]. Lastly, despite a lack of substantial evidence that Bcnt/Cfdp1 is directly

467

involved in craniofacial development, its attractive but misleading nomenclature (i.e.,

468

craniofacial development protein 1) may have caused confusion regarding its function

469

in Ab providers and researchers. As a result, this may have prevented prior careful

470

analysis of the molecule.

471

Off-target problems have been widely discussed in many Ab validation studies

472

(e.g., [24], [25]), including specific in-depth efforts for Ab evaluation (e.g., [27]).

473

Moreover, a strategy for Ab validation has been proposed [28]. However, the focus of

474

this discussion appears to be blurred, at least regarding western blot analysis.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

31

475

Immune cross-reactivity of Abs is based on a general chemical reaction determined

476

by the reaction probability. Epitopes are conventionally divided into two categories:

477

linear or sequential and discontinuous or conformational epitopes [29]. However, Abs

478

do not recognize even linear epitopes as a series of amino acid residues but rather the

479

physicochemical and stereochemical states that they constitute, and these properties as a

480

whole constitute epitope [30, 31]. For example, the following two cases may reflect

481

topological or stereochemical similarity of small environments that determine the

482

common epitopes between completely different proteins: Bcnt/Cfdp1 and glutamine

483

synthetase [17] and phosducin and β-actin [32], respectively. Thus, in principle, it is

484

impossible to exactly match the properties of the epitope with their amino acid

485

sequences, even in linear epitopes. Furthermore, it has been shown that linear epitope

486

peptides that reveal apparent off-target binding at the peptide levels have a strict

487

conformational component at the protein levels [33]. The classification of two types of

488

epitopes is therefore not easily producible.

489

Western blot signals detected by a certain Ab are strongly influenced by the target

490

concentration in test samples, as shown in Fig 3. The anti-BCNT-C Ab recognized the

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

32

491

exogenously expressed His-tag hBCNT/CFDP1 but scarcely detected an endogenous

492

counterpart. The result implies that the extract of cells overexpressing a target protein

493

does not qualify as a positive control for Ab evaluation in some experiments. However,

494

a good Ab means that it is useful to reveal new evidence regardless of the type of

495

experiment, which depends mainly on the target concentration to be analyzed and the

496

extract preparation method (Figs 3 and 5 and [25]). The experimental materials are quite

497

different with respect to their species, tissues, and developmental stages. Besides, when

498

the target gene has a strong influence on other genes or when the target is a lowly

499

expressed protein, some efforts may be required to assign their appropriate target

500

signals even using lysates from knockout or knockdown cells as a negative control. As

501

shown by the effect of Bcnt/Cfdp1 knockdown in Cfdp1-K1 cells, it is not uncommon

502

that a single gene mutation dramatically alters the expression levels of other genes (S3

503

Table and S4 Table). Furthermore, it is possible that many proteins showing similar

504

mobility with the target molecule on SDS/PAGE overlap the migration region of the

505

target molecule, making the signal assignment challenging [34]. There is no guarantee

506

that the once validated Ab will work with other samples.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

33

507

Of course, what we can do is generate antibodies using many unrelated

508

immunogens and also eliminate troublesome off-targets by rigorously screening

509

candidate antibodies (e.g., [28]). However, it is not necessary to be concerned with a

510

single signal, and even if a few off-target signals are detected, these kinds of Abs can be

511

useful if we have evaluated their limitation correctly, as shown in Fig 5 and in many

512

reports (e.g., [35]). Abs do not act within the confines of all-or-nothing modes via

513

specific reactions; therefore, it is critical to understand the efficacy and limitations of

514

the antibody used in any experiments.

515

Although sensitivity of western blot analysis to crude extract is much better than that

516

of mass spectroscopy, these tools are fundamentally different—that is, individual Ab is

517

not a tool for identifying a molecule but rather a tool for checking a contradiction.

518

Recently, mass analyses have become remarkably advanced and widely available. Thus,

519

it is now much easier to identify molecules that have been considered to be false targets

520

due to wrong-cross reaction with Abs. These trials may provide byproducts of the

521

excellent Abs, such as conformation-specific antibodies against the proteins.

522

As a reliable anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Ab (i.e., A305-624A-M) becomes clearer at present, it

523

is possible to characterize endogenous Bcnt/Cfdp1 more accurately, including

524

subcellular fractionation and tissue distribution. On the other hand, the comparative

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

34

525

transcriptome analysis of Cfdp1-K1 cells revealed that only a 25% decrease in

526

Bcnt/Cfdp1 mRNA resulted in a marked up-regulation or down-regulation of many

527

genes (S1 Appendix, S2 Table), though the confirmation is required by generating their

528

revertant cells by removing the mutagenic vector sequences through Flp-FRT

529

recombination [18]. Among them, it is noteworthy that mRNA expression of

530

intermediate filaments of keratins 8, as well as 18 and 19, was dramatically suppressed

531

—that is, 1% relative to the parental cells (S4 Table, [36]). Given the function of Swc5,

532

which is required under stressed conditions and conditions requiring rapid transcription

533

([Saccharomyces Data Base], [6], and [7]), Bcnt/Cfdp1 may play an essential role for

534

maintaining cell homeostasis, especially in processes such as developmental stage, cell

535

differentiation, and DNA damage repair. The Cfdp1-K1 cell line may serve as a stable

536

Bcnt/Cfdp1 knockdown cell in elucidating the functional role of Bcnt/Cfdp1 in the early

537

developmental stage by using western blotting analysis with further reliable

538

anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs.

539
540

Materials and Methods

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

35

541

All of the reagents and materials, and primers used are listed as S5 Table and S6 Table,

542

respectively.

543

Ethical approval

544

All of the genetic recombination experiments and all of the animal experiments

545

in the present study were approved by the Genetic Recombination Experiment Safety

546

Committee and the Animal Care and Use Committee, respectively, of Tokushima Bunri

547

University. All of the experiments were performed in accordance with NIH Guidelines

548

for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.

549
550

Cell culture

551

T-REx-293 cells (a HEK293 cell derivative, T-REx) and all clone/subcolonies

552

including G11 clone cells that constitutively expressed His-tag hBCNT/CFDP1 [15]

553

were routinely maintained in DMEM-GlutaMAX-1 (DMEM), which contained 10%

554

Fetal calf serum, 50 μg/mL gentamicin, and with or without G418 (0.5 mg/mL) in 5%

555

CO2 incubator. For subculturing, the medium was aspirated completely, and the cell

556

layers (2 ml culture on 35-mm dish) were incubated with 0.75 mL accutase for 5 min at

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

36

557

room temperature. Then, they were homogenized by pipetting using a 1000-μL pipet tip,

558

and 40-60 μL of the suspension was directly plated on the dish preincubated with the 2

559

mL culture medium for at least 30 min, and G418 was added the next day when needed.

560

For transfection or preparation of cellular protein extract, the cell layers (5 mL culture

561

on 60-mm dish) were washed with 5 mL prewarmed Hepes buffered saline (HBS,

562

mM Hepes-NaOH, pH 7.5, 150 mM NaCl], treated with 1.5 mL accutase, homogenized

563

as described above, and then 1 mL medium was added. The cell suspension was

564

transferred to a 15-mL tube, and the dish was washed with another 1-mL medium

565

followed by combining the suspension within a total 10 min (total ~2.5 mL). After

566

taking out 20 μL to estimate the cell number with a disposable Hemocytometer（Watson

567

Bio Lab）, the suspension was centrifuged (Sakuma Model RSL-IV; 1, 000 rpm, 1 min,

568

room temperature) and resuspended in the culture medium for further study. TrypLE

569

Express was also used in the earlier stage of the study in isolation of T-Rex-derived

570

colonies that constitutively expressed Flag-MCS or Flag-tagged mBcnt (see below).

571
572

ES cell culture

[10

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

37

573

Cfdp1-K1 and vdR2-4 cells were obtained from Japanese Collection of Research

574

Bioresources (JCRB) Cell Bank and grown in ESGRO Complete Clonal Grade Medium

575

plus GSK3β Inhibitor (50 μl/100 mL) supplemented with gentamicin (50 μg/mL) in a

576

35-mm dish that was precoated by incubation with recombinant human Laminin

577

(iMatrix-511) at a final concentration of 5 μg/mL in PBS for either 2 h at room

578

temperature or 1 h at 37

579

and the cell layers were washed with 2 mL of prewarmed HBS and incubated

580

with 0.75 mL accutase at room temperature. After 5 min, the cell layer was

581

homogenized by pipetting using a 1000-μL pipet tip, and 1-mL DMEM containing 0.1%

582

polyvinyl alcohol (DMEM-PVA) was added. The suspension was then transferred into a

583

15-mL tube and the dish was washed with another 1 mL of DMEM-PVA and the

584

suspension was combined (total ~2.7 mL) within a total of 10 min. After taking out 20

585

μl for counting the cell number, the suspension was centrifuged (700 rpm, 3 min, room

586

temperature) and resuspended in the new medium and seeded at the density of ~ 2.5 x

587

105 cells per 35-mm dish. For the preparation of protein extract and total RNA, the cell

588

suspension obtained above were twice washed with chilled HBS, dispensed at ~1 x 106

. For subculturing, the medium was aspirated completely,

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

38

589

cells per 1.5-mL tube, and centrifuged (100 x g, 5 min, 4°C). After removing the buffer

590

completely, the pelleted cells were softly vortexed, snap-frozen in liquid N2, and

591

stocked at -80  until use.

592
593

Generation of T-REx colonies expressing Flag-mBcnt

594

T-REx cells (~2 x 106 per 100-mm dish in 10 mL medium) were cultured for 20 h,

595

and each 5 μg of pcDNA3.1 plasmid carrying Flag-MCS or Flag-BamH1-mBcnt cDNA

596

was added in the culture using Lipofectamine 3000 (5 μL in 250 μL Opti-MEM)

597

according to the manufacturer protocol. Just before transfection, each 5 mL medium

598

was once removed, transfected, and the medium that had been saved was back to the

599

culture 4-6 h after transfection. After culturing for a total of 44-48 h, each cell layer was

600

washed with 10 mL prewarmed HBS and treated with 1.5 mL of TrypLE Express for 10

601

min at 37 °C, harvested using 1 mL of medium in a 15-mL tube, centrifuged and

602

resuspended in a 1-mL medium.

603

The number of each cultured cell was counted, and ~60 cells in 50 μL were seeded in a

604

48-well plate preincubated with 150-μL medium. After 4 hours, G418 was added to a

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

39

605

final concentration of 0.75 mg/mL. Colonies growing in 48-well plates were

606

sequentially expanded to 12-well plates (on day 15 after media change twice) and

607

35-mm dishes (on day 21 after media change twice). Each colonies was then maintained

608

in the presence of 0.5 mg / mL G418.

609
610

Protein extracts of T-REx cells and their colonies

611

After washing with chilled HBS (10 mL/100-mm dish) followed by removing the

612

buffer completely using a piece of filter paper, the cells were homogenized with a cell

613

scraper (17-mm width) in 0.5 mL lysis buffer [20 mM Hepes-NaOH, pH 7.5, 150 mM

614

NaCl, 1 mM 2-mercaptoethanol, designated L_buffer] supplemented with both

615

inhibitors of proteinases and phosphatases. The homogenate was transferred into a

616

1.5-mL tube, sonicated by a Bioruptor (BM Equipment) in an ice-water bath (10-s

617

pulses repeated 15 times at 10-s intervals) and centrifuged (25,000 x g, 30 min, 4 °C)

618

using a centrifuge (Kubota 3780, rotor AF-2536A). After taking out five

619

measurement of protein concentration, the supernatants were aliquoted, snap-frozen in

620

liquid nitrogen, and stored at -80 °C until use. On the other hand, the pellets were

μL

for

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

40

621

dissolved in 50-μL lysis buffer containing SDS [1%SDS, 1 mM EDTA in 10-mM

622

Hepes-NaOH, pH 7.5, designated LS_buffer], sonicated (3 x 10-s pulses at 10-s

623

intervals) and centrifuged （10,000 x g, 1 min, 4℃）. After taking out 5 μl for

624

measurement of protein concentration, the sample was boiled in SDS/PAGE sample

625

buffer.

626
627

Isolation of F-mBcnt by anti-Flag Ab-conjugated agarose

628

beads

629

The frozen supernatant of E3 colony was thawed, and Nonidet P-40 (NP-40) was

630

added to a final concentration of 0.05%. After sonication for 30 s in the ice-water bath

631

(3 x 10-s pulses at 10-s intervals) followed by centrifuging at 10, 000 x g for 1 min at

632

4

633

settled volume) in a 1.5-mL siliconized tube and incubated in a rotary shaker for 2 h at

634

4

635

Type ATT-101), and the supernatant was saved as the unbound fraction. The pellet was

636

suspended in 100-μL of L_buffer containing 0.05% NP-40 plus inhibitors and

,

the sup (1 mL of 1.2 mg) was mixed with anti-Flag-tag agarose beads (20 μL

. The mixture was centrifuged for 30 s using a swing type centrifuge (Swing Man,

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

41

637

transferred to a spin column (0.8 mL size) using a 200-μL wide-bore tip, and the tube

638

was once more washed with 100 μL of L_buffer plus NP-40, and the suspension was

639

recovered to the spin column. The through-flow fraction obtained by centrifugation was

640

stocked as the first wash fraction. The agarose in the column was washed twice with the

641

same buffer, followed by being washed once more with HBS, and then the bound

642

proteins were eluted with 50 μL of Flag (DYKDDDK) peptide (150 μg in HBS) by

643

incubation at 4 ℃ for 30 min (Eluate #1) and another 5 min (Eluate #2), sequentially.

644

The agarose in a column was further treated with 50 μL of glycine-HCl (50 mM, pH

645

2.5), and its eluate and the agarose in the column were immediately neutralized with 2

646

M Tris. Finally, 50 μL of 1 x SDS/PAGE sample buffer was added to the column,

647

vortexed, and boiled for 5 min. All of the fractionated samples except the fraction eluted

648

with SDS/PAGE sample buffer were boiled in 1 x SDS/PAGE sample buffer by mixing

649

with 4 x SDS/PAGE buffer. Each five μL (3.75 μL of the net eluate) were separated on

650

1.25 % SDA/PAGE and followed by western blotting analysis using anti-Flag Ab. For

651

LC-MS/MS analysis, Eluates #1 and #2 described above (each ~40

652

concentrated

with

acetone

according

to

the

μL)

were

protocol

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

42

653

(http://tools.thermofisher.com/content/sfs/brochures/TR0049-Acetone-precipitation.pdf).

654

dry pellet was once dissolved in 6 μL of 10-fold diluted LS_buffer, and two μL of 4 ×

655

SDS/PAGE sample buffer was added followed by boiling for 3 minutes. After

656

separating the sample for 10 minutes longer than usual on 12.5% gel SDS/PAGE, the

657

gel was fixed with 50% MeOH-10% acetic acid solution for 20 minutes, stained with

658

0.25% CBB for 10 minutes, and then de-stained in 10% MeOH-7% acetic acid solution.

The

659
660

Protein extracts from mouse and rat brain

661

Cerebrum and cerebral cortices were dissected from mice (P0 of C57BL/6J, male)

662

and rats (P0-P56 of Wistar rat, male) after euthanasia under anesthesia, respectively.

663

These isolated samples were snap-frozen in liquid N2 and stored at -80

664

Frozen samples were crushed with a hammer on dry ice and immediately transferred to

665

a glass-Teflon homogenizer with 1 mL of LS_buffer per 100 mg of samples. Then,

666

tissues were homogenized at 600 rpm using a digital homogenizer and boiled for 5 min.

667

These homogenates were sonicated (12 x 10-s pulses at 20-s interval) and centrifuged

668

(28,000 x g, 30 min, 20 ℃). In the case of a mouse embryo on day around 17, a frozen



until use.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

43

669

piece (~40 mg) was wrapped with aluminum foil, crushed with pliers with the help of

670

liquid nitrogen, transferred to a 1.5-mL BioMasher, and soaked in chilled 200 μL of

671

LS_buffer. Then, the tissues were homogenized in ice, boiled for 5 min, sonicated for

672

2.5 min (15 x 10-s pulses at 10-s intervals), and centrifuged (15,000 x g, 10 min, 20 ℃).

673

The supernatants were used for western blot analysis. Protein concentrations in the

674

supernatants were determined using a Bicinchoninic Acid (BCA) protein assay kit with

675

bovine serum albumin as a standard.

676
677
678

Enrichment of bovine Bcnt/Cfdp1 by Phos-tag agarose
Bovine placenta (from Holstein Day 116) is a gift from Dr. Kazuyuki Hashizume

679

(Iwate University, Morioka) and was stored in liquid nitrogen until use. Each piece (~30

680

mg) was further subdivided with a razor blade and extracted in two ways: one for the

681

whole extract preparation and the other for the concentration of Bcnt/Cfdp1 content. The

682

minced pieces were placed in 1.5 mL of BioMasher, soaked in cold 200 μL of L_buffer

683

and homogenized, and then 10 μl of 20% SDS was mixed, followed by boiling for 5

684

minutes. The extract was sonicated for 2.5 minutes (15 x 10-s pulses at 10-s intervals),

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

44

685

centrifuged (15,000 × g, 10 minutes, 22 °C.), and the supernatant was used as a whole

686

extract. For enrichment of Bcnt/Cfdp1, the fined tissue piece in the 1.5-mL BioMasher

687

was homogenized in 100 μL of chilled RIPA buffer [20 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, 150 mM

688

NaCl, 0.5% sodium deoxycholate, 1% NP-40, 1 mM EDTA] plus both inhibitors of

689

proteinases/phosphatases. After transferring the homogenate into a new 1.5-mL tube, the

690

homogenizer was washed with another 100 μL of RIPA buffer, and the solution was

691

combined and centrifuged (15, 000 x g, 10 min, 4 ). After taking out 5 μL for

692

measurement of protein concentration, the supernatant was aliquoted, snap-frozen in

693

liquid N2 and stored in -80  until use (total 1.4 mg protein). After dilution of the

694

supernatant with RIPA buffer, 100 μL (200 μg) was enriched by Phos-tag agarose (100

695

μL settled volume in a spin column, 0.8 mL size) according to the manufactured protocol

696

with the following modification; use of a swing-type centrifuge (Swing Man, Type

697

ATT-101) and softly tapping the spin column during washing (200 μL, three times) and

698

elution (100 μL per tube three times). Each eluate was precipitated with TCA at a final

699

concentration of 20% and washed twice with 50 μL of acetone according to the protocol

700

(http://www.its.caltech.edu/~bjorker/TCA_ppt_protocol.pdf). After heating at 95 , 50

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

45

701

μL of SDS/PAGE sample buffer was added and solubilized by a mixer (Tomy MT-360)

702

for 30 min at room temperature. For larger preparation, the above 700 μg of the extract

703

was diluted to 350 μL with RIPA buffer, applied to a 350-μL settled volume of Phos-tag

704

agarose in a spin column. After rinsing with 0.5 ml of washing buffer three times, the

705

bound proteins were eluted with 0.5 and 0.45 mL of elution buffer sequentially into one

706

tube, as described above. After precipitation with TCA, the pellets were mixed with 50

707

μL of LS_buffer for one hour. The total recovered protein was 112 μg, with a yield of

708

16 %. On the other hand, to estimate the approximate Bcnt/Cfdp1 content in the pellet

709

(~20 μL) of the above centrifugation (15,000 x g, 10 min, 4), 6.7 μL of 4 x SDS/PAGE

710

sample buffer was added, mixed vigorously, boiled for 5 min, and sonicated for 2. 5 min

711

(15 x 10-s pulsed at 10-s intervals).

712
713

Immunoblotting

714

Procedures of SDS/PAGE of 12.5% or 15% gel and blotting onto membranes

715

were mostly the same as previously described [15, 17]. The blotted PVDF membrane

716

was blocked in 5% skim milk in TBT buffer [10 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.6, 150 mM NaCl,

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

46

717

0.1 % Tween 20] for 2 h at room temperature or overnight at 4

718

incubated for 2 h at room temperature or overnight at 4

719

treated for one h at room temperature. All immunoreactivity was visualized by

720

chemiluminescent using horseradish peroxidase (HRP)-conjugated secondary antibodies

721

that are listed in the S5 Table. Their image was detected by a scanner (GeneGenome,

722

Syngene BioImaging) using ImmunoSTAR Zeta or LD as a substrate. For re-probing,

723

the bound antibodies on the used membrane were stripped by incubation of the filters in

724

a solution of 62.5 mM Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 2% SDS, and 100 mM 2-mercaptoethanol

725

with stirring for 30 min at ~60

726

TBT buffer.



. The first Ab was

and the second Ab was

 on hot block, followed by washing three times with

727
728

Mass spectroscopy analysis

729

The upper and lower bands of a doublet band that were detected by CBB staining

730

were cut out from the gel and digested with API, AspN, and chymotrypsin, and each

731

digest was analyzed by nano-LC-MS/MS using a Q Exactive mass spectrometer as

732

described previously [15]. The quantification of peptides derived from the upper and

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

47

733

lower bands was carried out using a label-free quantification method using Proteome

734

Discoverer Ver 2.2.0.388 (Thermo Fisher Scientific).

735
736

Isolation of total RNA

737

The frozen ES cells were homogenized with Trizol reagent, and total RNAs were

738

purified using PureLink RNA Mini kit according to the manufacturer protocol [17]. The

739

purified total RNAs were treated with TURBO DNase to eliminate contaminating

740

genomic DNA, extracted with phenol/chloroform/isoamyl alcohol (pH 5.2), and

741

re-purified using RNA Clean & Concentrator -25 kit. The concentration of the total

742

RNAs was determined by the absorbance at 260 and 280 nm using NanoDrop One

743

(Thermo Fisher Scientific), and the quality was estimated using a 2100 Bioanalyzer

744

(Agilent). Two RNAs with the high quality shown below were subjected to RNA

745

sequencing (Macrogen Japan Corp., Kyoto).
RNA source

Concentration (ng/μL)

A260/A280

RIN

Cfdp1-K1 (Bcnt/Cfdp1 Mutant)

454.6

2.07

9.9

vdR2-4 (Wild type)

366.8

2.03

9.6 9.9

～

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

48

746
747
748

Reverse transcription-PCR and plasmid construction

749

cDNAs were synthesized by Superscript III SuperMix according to the

750

manufacturer protocol using oligo-(dT) 20 primer from purified total RNAs of

751

Cfdp1-K1, vdR2-4 cells, and whole mouse brain of a P56 C57BL/6J male as previously

752

described [17] . The full-length ORF of mBcnt or the fragment of mBcnt exons 1-5

753

fused with hygromycin phosphotransferase were amplified from each cDNA (1 ng as a

754

total RNA) by PCR using KAPA HiFi HotStart DNA polymerase under the following

755

cycling conditions: denaturation at 95°C for 3min, followed by 35 cycles of 98°C

756

for 10sec, 68°C for 15sec, and 72°C for 90sec. The primer sequences are listed

757

in S6 Table. After confirmation of their amplicon size by 0.8% Tris-Acetate EDTA

758

agarose gel electrophoresis and purification by Wizard SV Gel and PCR Clean-Up

759

System (Promega), the sequences of their ORFs were confirmed using BigDye

760

Terminator V3.1 Cycle Sequencing Kit (Thermo Fisher Scientific). For the construction

761

of Flag-mBcnt expression plasmid, the PCR product was inserted into a mammalian

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

49

762

expression vector, Flag-MCS-pcDNA3.1 (Accession No. LC311018), using restriction

763

enzymes Bam HI and Xho I as previously described [17].

764
765

Transcriptome analysis

766

The following is from a report of HN00101712 (Macrogen Corp Japan, S1

767

Appendix). The two cDNA libraries from RNAs of Cfdp1-K1 or dvR2-4 cells were

768

prepared using the TruSeq Stranded mRNA LT Sample Prep Kit (Illumina). Their

769

sequences were obtained using NovaSeq 6000 S4 Reagent Kit by a Nova Sequencing

770

system (S1 Appendix, S2 Table). Paired-end reads (read length 101) were mapped to a

771

mouse reference genome (UCSC GRCm38.p4/mm10, annotation RefSeq_2017_06_12).

772

After trimming, 98.81% were mapped on 45,262,214 cleaned reads from Cfdp1-K1

773

RNA, while 99.09 % were mapped on 52,245,252 cleaned reads from vdR2-4 RNA.

774
775

Acknowledgments

776

We wish to thank Drs. Kyoji Horie and Eiji Kinoshita for providing technical

777

suggestions and useful discussions on ES cell culture and Phos-tag agarose handling,

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

50

778

respectively. We thank Drs. Kazuyoshi Hashizume and Takeharu Masaki for giving us

779

bovine tissues and Achromobacter protease I, respectively, Dr. Wakako Kobayashi for

780

sharing the interest in generating Bcnt/Cfdp1 knockout cells, and Dr. Sang Wan Kim for

781

conducting the transcriptome analysis. We are grateful to Drs. Salvador Eugenio Caoili,

782

Christopher A. MacRaild, and Brian McWilliams for their particularly useful discussions

783

and opinions. We also thank Drs. Ed Luk, Takashi Yasuda for discussions on the

784

chromatin remodeling complex and on repair of damaged DNA, respectively. We

785

indebted to Professor Hiromi Nochi for her encouragement.

were

786
787
788

References
1.

Messina G, Celauro E, Atterrato MT, Giordano E, Iwashita S, Dimitri P.

789

The Bucentaur (BCNT) protein family: a long-neglected class of

790

essential proteins required for chromatin/chromosome organization and

791

function.

792

10.1007/s00412-014-0503-8

793

2.

Chromosoma.

2015;

124(2):153-62.

doi:

Krogan NJ, Keogh MC, Datta N, Sawa C, Ryan OW, Ding H, et al. A

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

51

794

Snf2 family ATPase complex required for recruitment of the histone H2A

795

variant Htz1. Mol Cell. 2003; 12(6):1565-76.

796

3.

Mizuguchi G, Shen X, Landry J, Wu WH, Sen S, Wu C. ATP-driven

797

exchange of histone H2AZ variant catalyzed by SWR1 chromatin

798

remodeling complex. Science. 2004; 303(5656):343-8.

799

4.

Nguyen VQ, Ranjan A, Stengel F, Wei D, Aebersold R, Wu C, et al.

800

Molecular Architecture of the ATP-Dependent Chromatin-Remodeling

801

Complex SWR1. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2013.08.018.

802

5.

Wu WH, Alami S, Luk E, Wu CH, Sen S, Mizuguchi G, et al. Swc2 is a

803

widely conserved H2AZ-binding module essential for ATP-dependent

804

histone exchange. Nat Struct Mol Biol. 2005; 12 (12):1064-71.

805

6.

Tramantano M, Sun L, Au C, Labuz D, Liu Z, Chou M, et al.

806

Constitutive turnover of histone H2A.Z at yeast promoters requires the

807

preinitiation

808

10.7554/eLife.14243.

809

7.

complex.

Elife.

2016;

5.

pii:

e14243.

doi:

Lin CL, Chaban Y, Rees DM, McCormack EA, Ocloo L, Wigley DB.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

52

810

Functional characterization and architecture of recombinant yeast SWR1

811

histone exchange complex. Nucleic Acids Res. 2017; 45(12): 7249-7260.

812

doi: 10.1093/nar/gkx414.

813

8.

Morillo-Huesca M, Clemente-Ruiz M, Andújar E, Prado F. The SWR1

814

histone replacement complex causes genetic instability and genome-wide

815

transcription misregulation in the absence of H2A.Z. PLoS One. 2010;

816

5(8): e12143. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0012143.

817

9.

Sun L, Luk E. Dual function of Swc5 in SWR remodeling ATPase

818

activation and histone H2A eviction. Nucleic Acids Res. 2017; 45(17):

819

9931-9946. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkx589.

820

10. Messina G, Damia E, Fanti L, Atterrato MT, Celauro E, Mariotti FR, et

821

al. Yeti, an essential Drosophila melanogaster gene, encodes a protein

822

required for chromatin organization. J Cell Sci 2014; 127: 2577-2588;

823

doi: 10.1242/jcs.150243.

824

11. Ohta S, Bukowski-Wills JC, Sanchez-Pulido L, Alves Fde L, Wood L,

825

Chen ZA, et al. The protein composition of mitotic chromosomes

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

53

826

determined using multiclassifier combinatorial proteomics. Cell. 2010;

827

142(5): 810-21. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2010.07.047.

828

12. Morozov VM, Giovinazzi S, Ishov AM. CENP-B protects centromere

829

chromatin

830

H3.3-specifne Daxx. Epigenetics Chromatin. (2017) 10(1):63. doi:

831

10.1186/s13072-017-0164-y.

integrity by

facilitating

histone

deposition

via

the

832

13. Clément-Ziza M, Marsellach FX, Codlin S, Papadakis MA, Reinhardt S,

833

Rodríguez-López M, Martin S, Marguerat S, et al. Natural genetic

834

variation impacts expression levels of coding, non-coding, and antisense

835

transcripts in fission yeast. Mol Syst Biol. 2014;10: 764. doi:

836

10.15252/msb.20145123.

837

14. Liu Y, Beyer A, Aebersold R. On the Dependency of Cellular Protein

838

Levels on mRNA Abundance. Cell. 2016;165(3): 535-550. doi:

839

10.1016/j.cell.2016.03.014.

840
841

15. Iwashita S, Suzuki T, Yasuda T, Nakashima K, Sakamoto T, Kohno T, et
al. Mammalian Bcnt/Cfdp1, a potential epigenetic factor characterized

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

54

842

by an acidic stretch in the disordered N-terminal and Ser250

843

phosphorylation in the conserved C-terminal regions. Biosci Rep. 2015;

844

35(4). pii: e00228. doi: 10.1042/BSR20150111.

845

16. Iwashita S, Osada N, Itoh T, Sezaki M, Oshima K, Hashimoto E, et al. A

846

transposable element-mediated gene divergence that directly produces a

847

novel type bovine Bcnt protein including the endonuclease domain of

848

RTE-1. Mol Biol Evol. 2003; 20(9):1556-63. doi:

849

10.1093/molbev/msg168

850

17. Nakashima K, Iwashita S, Suzuki T, Katoh C, Kohno T, Kamei Y, et al. A

851

spatial similarity of stereochemical environments formed by amino acid

852

residues defines a common epitope between two non-homologous

853

proteins. Scientific Rep (in press).

854

18. Horie K, Kokubu C, Yoshida J, Akagi K, Isotani A, Oshitani A, et al. A

855

homozygous mutant embryonic stem cell bank applicable for

856

phenotype-driven genetic screening. Nat Methods. 2011; 8(12):

857

1071-1077. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.1739.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

55

858

19. Kinoshita-Kikuta E, YamadaA, Inoue C, Kinoshita E, Koike E. A novel

859

phosphate-affinity bead with immobilized Phos-tag for separation and

860

enrichment of phosphopeptides and phosphoproteins. OMICS 2011;1(1)

861

157-169.

862

20. Passon DM, Lee M, Rackham O, Stanley WA, Sadowska A, Filipovska

863

A, et al. Structure of the heterodimer of human NONO and paraspeckle

864

protein component 1 and analysis of its role in subnuclear body

865

formation. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2012;109(13):4846-50. doi:

866

10.1073/pnas.1120792109.

867

21. Kobayashi W, Ozawa M. The epithelial-mesenchymal transition induced

868

by transcription factor LEF-1 is independent of

869

Biophys Rep. 2018; 15: 13-18. doi: 10.1016/j.bbrep.2018.06.003.

870

β-catenin.

Biochem

22. Iwashita S1, Ueno S, Nakashima K, Song SY, Ohshima K, Tanaka K, et al.

871

A tandem gene duplication followed by recruitment of a retrotransposon

872

created the paralogous bucentaur gene (bcntp97) in the ancestral ruminant.

873

Mol Biol Evol. 2006; 23(4): 798-806. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msj088

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

56

874

23. Iwashita S, Nakashima K, Sasaki M, Osada N, Song SY. Multiple

875

duplication of the bucentaur gene family, which recruits the APE-like

876

domain of retrotransposon: Identification of a novel homolog and

877

distinct cellular expression. Gene. 2009;435(1-2):88-95. doi:

878

10.1016/j.gene.2009.01.012.

879

24. Vanli G, Cuesta-Marban A, Widmann C. Evaluation and validation of

880

commercial antibodies for the detection of Shb. PLoS One. 2017; 12(12):

881

e0188311. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0188311.

882

25.

Qi W, Davidson BA, Nguyen M, Lindstrom T, Grey RJ, Burnett R, et al.

883

Validation of anti-glucocerebrosidase antibodies for western blot analysis

884

on protein lysates of murine and human cells. Biochem J. 2019; 476(2):

885

261-274. doi: 10.1042/BCJ20180708.

886

26.

MacRaild CA, Richards JS, Anders RF, Norton RS. Antibody

887

Recognition of Disordered Antigens. Structure. 2016; 24(1): 148-157.

888

doi: 10.1016/j.str.2015.10.028.

889

27.

McIntush EW. Response: Antibody crossreactivity between the tumour

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

57

890

suppressor PHLPP1 and the proto-oncogene

891

2013; 14(6): 494-6. doi: 10.1038/embor.2013.68.

892

28.

β-catenin.

EMBO Rep.

Uhlen M, Bandrowski A, Carr S, Edwards A, Ellenberg J, Lundberg E, et

893

al. A proposal for validation of antibodies. Nat Methods. 2016; 13(10):

894

823-7. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.3995.

895

29.

Caoili SE, Expressing Redundancy among Linear-Epitope Sequence

896

Data Based on Residue-Level Physicochemical Similarity in the Context

897

of Antigenic Cross-Reaction. Adv Bioinformatics. 2016; 1276594. doi:

898

10.1155/2016/1276594.

899

30.

Dalkas GA, Rooman M.

SEPIa, a knowledge-driven algorithm for

900

predicting conformational B-cell epitopesfrom the amino acid

901

sequence.

902

10.1186/s12859-017-1528-9.

903

31.

BMC

Bioinformatics 2017;18(1):95.

doi:

Piotrowska U, Adler G. Phosducin and monomeric β-actin have common

904

epitope recognized by anti-phosducin antibodies. Immunol Lett.

905

2010;134(1):62-68. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2010.08.010.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

58

906

32.

Forsström B, Axnäs BB, Stengele KP, Bühler J, Albert TJ, Richmond TA,

907

et al. Proteome-wide epitope mapping of antibodies using ultra-dense

908

peptide arrays. Mol Cell Proteomics. 2014; 13(6): 1585-97. doi:

909

10.1074/mcp.M113.033308.

910

33.

Forsström B, Axnäs BB, Rockberg J, Danielsson H, Bohlin A, Uhlen M

911

(2015) Dissecting antibodies with regards to linear and conformational

912

epitopes. PLoS One 10 (3) :e0121673.

913

34.

McLane MW, McCann U, Ricaurte G. Identifying the serotonin

914

transporter signal in Western blot studies of the neurotoxic potential of

915

MDMA and related drugs. Synapse. 2011; 65(12):1368-72. doi:

916

10.1002/syn.20958.

917

35. Jank T, Bogdanović X, Wirth C, Haaf E, Spoerner M, Böhmer

918

KE, et al. A bacterial toxin catalyzing tyrosine glycosylation of

919

Rho and deamidation of Gq and Gi proteins. Nat Struct Mol

920

Biol. 2013; 20(11):1273-80. doi: 10.1038/nsmb.2688.

921

36.

Saykali B, Mathiah N, Nahaboo W, Racu ML, Hammou L, Defrance M,

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

59

922

et al. Distinct mesoderm migration phenotypes in extra-embryonic and

923

embryonic regions of the early mouse embryo. Elife. 2019;8. pii: e42434.

924

doi: 10.7554/eLife.42434.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

TITLE:

A spatial similarity of stereochemical environments formed by amino acid
residues defines a common epitope of two non-homologous proteins

AUTHORS:
Kentaro Nakashima1*, Shintaro Iwashita1*, 2, Takehiro Suzuki3, Chieko Kato1, Toshiyuki
Kohno4, Yasutomi Kamei5, Motoki Sasaki6, Osamu Urayama7, Yoshiko Ohno-Iwashita2,
Naoshi Dohmae3 and Si-Young Song1*

AFFILIATIONS:
1. Institute of Neuroscience, Tokushima Bunri University, Kagawa 769-2193, Japan
2. Department of Pharmacy, Iwaki Meisei University, Fukushima 970-8551, Japan
3. Biomolecular Characterization Unit, RIKEN Center for Sustainable Resource Science,
Saitama 351-0198, Japan
4. Department of Biochemistry, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kanagawa
242-0374, Japan
5. Laboratory of Molecular Nutrition, Graduate School of Environmental and Life Science,
Kyoto Prefectural University, Kyoto 606-0823, Japan
6. Department of Basic Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture and
Veterinary Medicine, Hokkaido 080-8555, Japan
7. Faculty of Health Sciences, Tsukuba International University, Ibaraki 300-0051, Japan

1

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

* CORRESPONDING AUTHORS:
Kentaro Nakashima (sections of molecular biology and biochemistry)
E-mail: nkentaro@kph.bunri-u.ac.jp
Phone: (81) 87-899-7484
Fax: (81) 87-894-0181
Shintaro Iwashita (section of biochemistry)
E-mail: siwast@kph.bunri-u.ac.jp
Phone: (81) 87-899-7484
Fax: (81) 87-894-0181
Si-Young Song (section of immunohistochemistry)
E-mail: sysong@kph.bunri-u.ac.jp
Phone: (81) 87-899-7484
Fax: (81) 87-894-0181
Institute of Neuroscience,
Tokushima Bunri University
1314-1 Sido, Sanuki, Kagawa, 769-2193, Japan

2

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

ABSTRACT
It is critical for development of high-quality antibodies in research and diagnostics to
predict accurately their cross-reactivities with “off-target” molecules, which potentially
induce false results. Herein, we report a good example of such a cross-reactivity for an
off-target due to a stereochemical environment of epitopes, which does not simply depend
on amino acid sequences. We found that significant subpopulation of a polyclonal peptide
antibody against Bcnt (Bucentaur) (anti-BCNT-C antibody) cross-reacted with a completely
different protein, glutamine synthetase (GS), and identified four amino acids, GYFE, in its
C-terminal region as the core amino acids for the cross-reaction. Consistent with this
finding, the anti-BCNT-C antibody strongly recognized endogenously and exogenously
expressed GS in tissues and cultured cells by Western blotting and immunohistochemistry.
Furthermore, we elucidated that the cross-reaction is caused by a spatial similarity between
the stereochemical environments formed by amino acid residues, including the GYFE of GS
and the GYIE of Bcnt, rather than by their primary sequences. These results suggest it is
critical to comprehensively analyze antibody interactions with target molecules including
off-targets with special attention to the physicochemical environments of epitope-paratope
interfaces to decrease the risk of false interpretations of results using antibodies in science
and clinical applications.

3

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

INTRODUCTION
Antibodies (Abs) are very powerful tools not only in basic research but also in clinical
application of molecular targeted therapies for cancer (1-3) and autoimmune diseases such
as rheumatoid arthritis (4, 5). Antibody (Ab) drugs are a rapidly growing class of
biopharmaceuticals and a large number of novel promising Abs such as nivolumab and
pembrolizumab have been generated during the last few years. To efficiently develop high
quality Abs for research use as well as Ab drugs and vaccines, it is critical not only to
design immunogens that generate Abs with quite specific immunoreactivity for on-target
molecules but also to predict more accurately cross-reactivities of Abs with “off-targets”,
which potentially induce side effects in therapies using Abs and vaccines (6). The amino
acid sequences of epitopes have been considered to be a primary basis for specific
immunoreactions of Abs with target molecules. However, in addition to Abs against proteins,
those against nonprotein molecules, such as anti-DNA and anti-phospholipid Abs, are also
well known. On the other hand, recent reports demonstrated that a multispecific monoclonal
Ab recognizes completely different linear epitope sequences with high affinity (7), and
progress is proceeding toward development of therapies by intentionally using such a
dual-specific Ab (8). These examples are difficult to understand from a simple grasp of
epitopes based on only their amino acid sequences. The epitopes are conventionally
classified into two groups, linear or sequential and discontinuous or conformational (9, 10).
Such a conventional classification based on amino acid sequences is useful to simply
explain epitopes of proteins but insufficient to more accurately understand epitopes in
antigen-Ab interactions such as the above-described examples because these examples
indicate that Ab recognition of target molecules is based on the physicochemical
4

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

environment of epitopes and does not necessarily depend on their linear amino acid
sequences. Accordingly, it is necessary to have a more comprehensive understanding of Ab
specificities on the basis of physicochemical features of epitopes. In this report, we present
a didactic example to consider these points.
We identified the Bcnt (Bucentaur) / Cfdp1 (craniofacial developmental protein 1) protein
family, which probably function as a component of chromatin remodeling complex by the
study of yeast ortholog Swc5 (11). Previously, we raised an Ab against a peptide of a
C-terminal region of BCNT (called BCNT-C), EELAIHNRGKEGYIERKA, which is
evolutionarily conserved from yeast to humans (12). This anti-BCNT-C Ab detected doublet
bands of 43/45 kDa by Western blot analysis of proteins extracted from bovine and rat
brains. We tried to isolate them by immunoprecipitation and identify them by mass
spectrometry. Surprisingly, we obtained the unexpected result that the 43 kDa protein is
glutamine synthetase (GS: NP_001035564.1); EC 6.3.1.2, also known as γ-glutamate:
ammonia ligase (13, 14), an enzyme entirely unrelated to Bcnt, which catalyzes the
ATP-dependent condensation of glutamate and ammonia to form glutamine. The
anti-BCNT-C Ab can specifically detect not only recombinant GS but also endogenous GS
in rat brain. This quite specific reactivity of the Ab with an off-target molecule prompted us
to seek a common epitope between GS and Bcnt to elucidate a chemical basis for the
cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab with GS. We report here that the core amino acids
of the common epitope causing the cross-reaction were identified as GYFE in GS and GYIE
in Bcnt. Also, we discuss here the significance of physico- or stereochemical environments
in epitope–paratope (10) or protein–protein interactions (15) and findings on the
proteome-wide analyses of epitopes (9).
5

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

RESULTS
Detection of the 43 kDa protein by anti-BCNT-C Ab
Previously, we reported detection of strong doublet bands of 43/45 kDa by Western blot
analysis of proteins extracted from bovine and rat brains with the anti-BCNT-C Ab (12).
This Ab reproducibly detected the 43/45 kDa proteins in mouse and bovine brain as well as
the mouse Bcnt around 45 kDa exogenously expressed in HEK293T cells (Fig. 1 and see
Supplementary Fig. S1 and S2 online). To examine the specificity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab,
we generated two other anti-Bcnt/Cfdp1 Abs using the C-terminus 10-mer peptide, which is
evolutionarily conserved, (anti-Bcnt-Cter Ab) and the 14-mer peptide of the N-terminal
region in mouse Bcnt (anti-mBcnt-N Ab), respectively, as different antigens from the
anti-BCNT-C Ab (see Supplementary Table S1 online). The polyclonal anti-Bcnt-Cter Ab
and the polyclonal anti-mBcnt-N Ab detected the recombinant Bcnt similarly as the
anti-BCNT-C Ab, whereas they did not detect the 43/45 kDa proteins (Fig. 1). These results
clearly indicate that 43/45 kDa proteins are specifically detected by only the anti-BCNT-C
Ab, not the anti-Bcnt-Cter and the anti-mBcnt-N Ab. In addition to this discrepancy and
different molecular sizes of these immunoreactants from the recombinant Bcnt (Fig. 1 and
see Supplementary Fig. S2 online), their very high immunoreactivity prompted us to
identify these proteins at the molecular level.

Identification of the 43 kDa protein
We found that we could immunoprecipitate the 43 kDa protein, but not the 45 kDa protein,
from the extracts of bovine brain and rat olfactory bulb (16) when the extracts were boiled
once in SDS, whereas we failed using a conventional Radioimmunoprecipitation assay

6

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

(RIPA) buffer (see Supplementary Fig. S3 online). Using this method, we isolated the 43
kDa protein from the extracts by ammonium sulfate precipitation, phenyl-sepharose
chromatography (see Supplementary Fig. S4A online), and immunoprecipitation using
agarose beads coupled with the anti-BCNT-C Ab (see Supplementary Fig. S4B online).
Three broad Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB)-positive bands with a molecular mass of 43,
55 or 65 kDa, respectively, were detected on SDS-Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis
(SDS-PAGE) of immunoprecipitated proteins (Fig. 2). Protein mixtures contained in each
separate band were subjected to LC-MS/MS analysis. Surprisingly, results from the
analyses showed that glutamine synthetase (GS) was detected in all three bands, whereas no
Bcnt fragment was detected in any analyzed band except for the GKEGYIER that was
derived from the immunogen peptide used for elution of bound proteins from the affinity
beads. In particular, GS having a calculated molecular mass of 42 kDa was detected as a
major component in the 43 kDa band together with gamma actin, alpha skeletal muscle
actin, and tubulin alpha-1B chain, where the coverage of GS by the tryptic peptides was
76.9% (see Supplementary Fig. S5A, S5B and Table S2 online). Detection of GS in these
three distinct bands was probably caused by a mobility shift due to its modification by
ubiquitination (17). These data suggest that GS, a protein not homologous to Bcnt, was the
most promising candidate for the 43 kDa protein recognized by the polyclonal anti-BCNT-C
Ab. It should be noted that the anti-BCNT-C Ab with cross-reactivity to GS was generated
in seven of eight guinea pigs immunized with the 18-mer BCNT-C peptide in two
independent immunizations, making it unlikely that generation of the anti-BCNT-C Ab with
such a cross-reactivity was accidental.

7

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

Recognition of glutamine synthetase by the anti-BCNT-C Ab
To examine whether the anti-BCNT-C Ab really cross-reacts with GS, we carried out
Western blot analysis using two distinct GS sources: a purified recombinant His-tagged
human GS expressed in Escherichia coli (E. coli) and extracts of skeletal muscle of
FOXO1-transgenic mice, which preferentially increase the mRNA and protein expressions
of GS (18). These results demonstrate that the Ab detected the same size band at a
comparable level as a canonical anti-GS Ab does (see Supplementary Fig. S6 online).
Considering the effect of a His-tag added to a recombinant protein, we also expressed
tag-free recombinant mouse GS and Bcnt or those with various tags, such as Flag, enhanced
green fluorescent protein (EGFP), and mCherry, in HEK293T cells to examine
multilaterally the cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab with GS, and then these
recombinant proteins were analyzed by Western blotting and immunocytochemistry.
Because the anti-BCNT-C Ab recognized GS regardless of type or presence or absence of
tags, representative results of tag-free and Flag-tagged mGS and mBcnt are shown in Fig.
3A, which clearly show that the anti-BCNT-C Ab specifically recognized both Bcnt and GS.
Additionally, we further examined by immunocytochemistry whether the cross-reactivity to
GS in situ is specific for the anti-BCNT-C Ab using the anti-Bcnt-Cter Ab and the
anti-mBcnt-N Ab. While the anti-BCNT-C Ab can specifically immunostain exogenously
expressed GS in HEK cells, but not the two other anti-Bcnt Abs (Fig. 3B). The
anti-BCNT-C Ab shows a strong immunoreactivity in situ as shown by positive
immunostaining of Bergmann glia, a type of astrocyte, in the rat cerebellum (see
Supplementary Fig. S7 online), which is consistent with previous reports that GS is a
marker of astrocytes (19). Other data are described in supporting information, which show
8

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

that some characteristics of the immunoreactant recognized by the anti-BCNT-C Ab are also
consistent with those previously reported for GS (see Supplementary Fig. S8 online, ref. 20,
21). Because we confirmed that the anti-BCNT-C Ab really recognizes GS, a protein not
homologous to Bcnt, we conducted epitope analysis of GS to investigate the mechanisms
for such a peculiar cross-reactivity.

Epitope analysis of GS for cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab
First, we prepared several deletion mutants of GS protein in E. coli to identify the region
recognized by the anti-BCNT-C Ab on a GS molecule.

Representative results of Western

blotting are shown in Fig. 4A. While a clear positive reaction was detected for a GS mutant
lacking almost half of the N-terminal amino acids (D2), no reaction was observed for a GS
mutant lacking C-terminal amino acids 332–373 (D1), strongly suggesting that the epitope
is localized in the C-terminal region of GS. To further narrow down the predicted epitope
region, we employed competition experiments using four peptides with short overlapping
amino acids (P1–P4 in Fig. 4B, upper panel, see Supplementary Fig. S9 online) derived
from the C-terminal region of GS. Western blot analysis using the preincubated
anti-BCNT-C Ab with each peptide or the antigen peptide showed that only P1 among the
four peptides strongly inhibited the cross-reactivity of the Ab with GS similar to the antigen
peptide (Fig. 4B, lower panel). These results strongly suggest that the epitope must be
included in the P1 peptide sequence. Furthermore, to identify key amino acids involved in
the cross-reaction, we prepared graded deletion mutants of GS and examined their reactivity
with the anti-BCNT-C Ab by Western blotting. As shown in Fig. 4C, the cross-reactivity
was clearly observed for the Del-338 mutant but was conspicuously absent for the Del-336
9

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

mutant. This result indicates that key amino acids for the cross-reaction are limited to
RTVGQEKKGYFE in the P1 peptide sequence. We noticed that KKGYFE of GS is similar
to KEGYIE of antigen peptide for anti-BCNT-C Ab, especially GYFE of GS and GYIE of
BCNT (Fig. 4C, lower left), and we examined the cross-reactivity with a focus on GYFE of
GS using alanine substitution mutants of GS. Whereas weak but significant reactivity was
detected for the F337A mutant, no reactivity was detected for other alanine substitution
mutants including E338A (Fig. 4D). These results clearly show that GYFE (hereinafter
called “the core amino acids”) is required for the cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab
with GS. As shown in Fig. 4D, mutant A4A also lacked reactivity with the Ab, suggesting
the possibility that K333 and/or K334 may be included in the epitope.

Evaluation of the affinity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab to GS and BCNT
Next, we evaluated the affinity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab to GS and BCNT by
semi-quantitative Western blotting of Flag-tagged mouse GS (F-mGS) and Bcnt (F-mBcnt)
normalized with an anti-Flag-tag Ab (Fig. 5). A subpopulation of the polyclonal
anti-BCNT-C Ab, which cross-reacts with GS, was fractionated by a column of agarose
resin cross-linked with GS(332-346) peptide including the core amino acids, GYFE (shown
in Fig. 5A). The binding fraction (GYFE fraction) was isolated in about 20% yield as a
protein weight, indicating that the subpopulation of the polyclonal anti-BCNT-C Ab
cross-reacting with the core amino acids, GYFE, of GS occupied about one fifth. Consistent
with these results, the normalized immunoreactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab for F-mGS is
estimated to be approximately one fifth compared with that for F-mBcnt (Fig. 5A, left).
Furthermore, the GYFE fraction from the anti-BCNT-C Ab reacted to F-mGS and F-mBcnt
10

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

with equivalent immunoreactivity (Fig. 5A, right), whereas the flow-through fraction did
not react to F-mGS (Fig. 5A, middle). These results suggest that the subpopulation of the
polyclonal anti-BCNT-C Ab cross-reacting with GS, derives from only Ab molecules
recognizing epitopes including the core amino acids, GYFE. On the other hand, the
immunoreactivity

of

the

GYFE

fraction

was

inhibited

with

a

peptide

EELAIHNRGKEGYIERKA-NH2, BCNT-C (GYIE) in Fig. 5B, but not with its mutant
replacing GYIE with Alanine, BCNT-C (All-Ala) in Fig. 5B. This result shows that the
subpopulation of the polyclonal anti-BCNT-C Ab cross-reacting with GYFE of GS
specifically reacts to GYIE of Bcnt. We also isolated the subpopulation from the
anti-BCNT-C Ab by affinity purification on the membrane using full-length recombinant
proteins of wild-type GS or All-Ala GS mutant expressed in E. coli (see Supplementary Fig.
S10 online). These results indicate that a certain subpopulation exists in the polyclonal
anti-BCNT-C Ab that reacts to both GS and Bcnt with similar affinities, and that GYFE of
GS composes a core sequence of the epitope required for the cross-reactivity of the
anti-BCNT-C Ab. It should be noted that the Ab recognized both GS and Bcnt with similar
immunoreactivities in spite of the difference between Phe (GYFE) for GS and Ile (GYIE)
for Bcnt.

Spatial similarity of stereochemical environment between GS epitope and BCNT-C
antigen
To understand the similar immunoreactivities of the anti-BCNT-C Ab against both GS and
Bcnt in spite of the one amino acid difference of the core sequence, we considered the
possibility that the cross-reactivity was caused by a spatial similarity of the stereochemical
11

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

environment between the BCNT-C antigen peptide and a region of GS including GYFE. As
described above, weak but significant immunoreactivity was detected for an alanine
substitution mutant of GS (F337A) but not for other alanine-substitution mutants (Fig. 4D).
Taken together, we conjectured that F337 of GS is not directly involved in the interface of
the antigen-Ab interaction between GS and the anti-BCNT-C Ab. To investigate how F337
actually participates in the antigen-Ab interaction, we prepared substitution mutants of F337
of GS with various amino acids having different steric bulks (the amount of space that side
chain atoms of amino acids occupy) or polarities and tried to semi-quantitatively analyze
the effect of those substitutions on stereochemical and physiochemical changes of GS by
Western blotting. As shown in Fig. 6A, when four hydrophobic and branched-chain amino
acids were substituted in the order of steric bulk from isoleucine to alanine, the
cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab was attenuated with an accompanying decrease in
the steric bulk of the substituted amino acid, but it was not completely abolished. This result
further supports our conjecture that F337 of GS is not directly engaged in the contact site of
the antigen-Ab interaction but importantly constitutes the stereochemical environment of
the epitope. Fig. 6B shows a 3D layout of a region around GYFE of the common epitope of
GS, which was drawn based on X-ray crystallography data of GS (PDB code 2OJW, ref. 22).
Note that Phe (F337) resides on the opposite side of neighboring Y336 and E338, occupying
rather a space by its aromatic ring. This arrangement of F337 supports our speculation
above that this amino acid is not directly involved in the contact site of the antigen-Ab
interaction, but has a steric bulk effect on the stereochemical environment of the epitope.
On the other hand, the cross-reactivity was approximately equal to the F337Y mutant as
compared with the wild-type GS (F337) (Fig. 6A). These data suggest that the polarity of
12

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

tyrosine, a hydroxyl group adduct of phenylalanine, does not significantly affect the
stereochemical environment of the epitope. In conclusion, the results obtained strongly
suggest that the spatial similarity of stereochemical environments formed by the core amino
acids of common epitopes of GS and Bcnt is critically important in the cross-reaction of the
anti-BCNT-C Ab with GS.

DISCUSSION
In this paper, we showed that the anti-BCNT-C Ab quite specifically cross-reacted with GS,
which is a protein not homologous to Bcnt, in addition to the original target molecule. GS is
present predominantly in the brain where it participates in the metabolic regulation of
glutamate (14, 23). The anti-BCNT-C Ab recognized exogenous GS expressed in HEK cells
and also showed strong immunoreactivity in astrocyte of adult rat cerebellum (see
Supplementary Fig. S7 online), consistent with the localization of GS in brain previously
reported (20). It is most likely that strong immunoreactivities of the anti-BCNT-C Ab in
Leydig cells of bovine testis (24) and astrocytes of rat brain, we had conjectured as
Bcnt/Cfdp1 so far, are immunoreactivities for endogeneous GS (20, 25). In addition to its
strong immunoreactivity, this Ab detects GS under different denaturing conditions:
thermally and reductively denatured GS in Western blotting, chemically fixed GS in situ in
immunocytochemistry and immunohistochemistry, and a more naïve form of GS in aqueous
solution in immunoprecipitation. These data strongly suggest that the epitope including
GYFE, which is reactive to the anti-BCNT-C Ab, localizes on the surface of the native GS.
Although no significant homology of amino acid sequences was found between Bcnt and

13

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

GS, we were able to identify the core amino acid sequence, GYFE, localized in a limited
region of the C-terminal of GS, that is necessary for the cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C
Ab (Fig. 4C). We conjectured that this sequence has an epitope in common with GYIE in
the immunogen peptide for the anti-BCNT-C Ab. This conjecture implies that replacement
of an aromatic amino acid, Phe, of GYFE with a branched chain amino acid, Ile, maintains
the epitope environment. This assumption is consistent with the results shown in Fig. 6A.
GS mutants with a substitution of Phe with Ile, Leu, or Tyr showed comparable
cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab, whereas replacement of Phe with a smaller amino
acid, Val or Ala, resulted in less reactivity with the Ab, indicating that the steric bulk of each
amino acid is critical for the reactivity of the epitope with the Ab. Moreover, the result also
indicates that the steric bulk of the aromatic ring of F337 or Tyr of the F337Y mutant of GS,
but not the polarity of amino acids, is important to maintain the stereochemical environment
for the cross-reactivity of the anti-BCNT-C Ab with GS. Therefore, this result strongly
suggests that Phe in GYFE (GS) and Ile in GYIE (Bcnt) play a role in maintaining the
spatial arrangement of the common epitope but are not directly involved in the contact site
of the antigen-Ab interaction. This speculation is consistent with a previous report that F337
resides on the opposite side of neighboring Y336 and E338 (22), and that each is involved
in binding ATP and glutamate, a substrate of GS, respectively, in the active site of the GS
complex (Fig. 6B). It is also reported that though F337 in the active site of GS is highly
conserved among species, it is replaced by Leu in Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Ile in
Salmonella typhimurium (13, 22), suggesting that both the function and stereochemical
environment of the active site of GS are maintained even if F337 is replaced with Leu or Ile.
These data lead to the speculation that the core amino acids of the common epitopes, GYFE
14

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

located in this site of GS and GYIE of Bcnt, constitute similar stereochemical
environments.
It is also noted that the conjectured core amino acids of the common epitope are bracketed
by charged amino acid residues such as lysine and arginine (Fig. 4C, lower left). The
hydrophilicity of these charged residues may bring the core amino acids of each epitope to
the surface of GS or BCNT. Elucidation of this characteristic of epitopes awaits further
studies.
It is well known now that whereas cross-reactions of Abs with structurally unrelated
peptides of off-targets frequently occur in binding assays of Abs using small peptides, such
cross-reactions rarely occur in those using protein fragments and in Western blot analysis
(9). It has been generally believed that Abs recognize linear epitopes of target molecules
under the denatured condition of SDS-PAGE, but some Abs can also react to proteins via
conformational epitopes, probably depending on the protein renaturation on transferred
membranes after denaturation in SDS-PAGE (26, 27). The anti-BCNT-C Ab reacted to each
GS mutant for Phe of GYFE in a steric bulk-dependent manner (Fig. 6A), in contrast to the
loss of immunoreactivities in alanine-substituted mutants for Gly, Tyr, and Glu of GYFE
(Fig. 4D). These results reflect differences in whether these amino acids exist at the contact
site for the Ab (Gly, Tyr, and Glu) or not (Phe). This result, which is consistent with the
configuration of the core amino acids displayed in the 3D structure of GS (Fig. 6B),
suggests that Bcnt and GS are partially renatured and that their conformations are partially
maintained on transferred membranes in Western blot analysis. Such renaturation of Bcnt
and GS is inferred to be one of the reasons why we were able to elucidate the similarity of
stereochemical environments between GYIE of Bcnt and GYFE of GS by Western blot
15

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

analysis.
Recent reports including this paper indicate that cross-reactions of Abs with off-target
molecules cannot be avoided, even when choosing a very specific amino acid sequence as
an immunogen (9, 28). Therefore, we have to pay attention to the fact that Abs do not
necessarily recognize only “on-targets” but potentially react with “off-targets” that comprise
similar stereochemical or physicochemical environments as that of on-target molecules.
Recent advances in computational and bioinformatic analyses using extensively
accumulated data of epitope-paratope interfaces make it possible to group T cell receptors
of common specificity using grouping algorithms of lymphocyte interactions by paratope
hotspots (29). Furthermore, these advances have also revealed the functional redundancy of
epitopes based on physicochemical similarities at a level of amino acid residues involved in
the antigenic cross-reaction (30). In addition to these accumulated data, further
comprehensive understanding of the physicochemical environment of epitope-paratope
interfaces including both “on-targets” and “off-targets” may make it possible to evaluate
and predict more accurately antigenicity and immunogenicity, and these advances will bring
about therapeutic Abs and vaccines with high specificity and without adverse effects.

MATERIALS AND METHODS
Ethical approval
All the genetic recombination experiments and all the animal experiments in the present
study were approved by the Genetic Recombination Experiment Safety Committee and the
Animal Care and Use Committee, respectively, of Tokushima Bunri University.

16

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

Reagents
Generation of anti-BCNT-C Ab, anti-mBcnt-N Ab, and anti-Bcnt-Cter Ab is described in
Supplementary Materials and Methods. Abs against Flag tag (DYKDDDDK tag;
014-22383) and GS (GTX109121) were obtained from Wako Pure Chemical Industries and
GeneTex, respectively. Unstained or prestained SDS-PAGE molecular weight standard
markers (Bio-Rad) were used differently for each experiment.

Construction of expression vectors for mGS and mBcnt
A plasmid carrying Myc-tagged mGS was a gift from Dr. T. Araki (Natl. Inst. Neurosci.,
Tokyo) (17). Using cloning primers (see Supplementary Table S3-1 online), mGS and
mBcnt cDNAs were amplified from cDNA, which was reverse transcribed from the total
RNA of the brain of an adult male C57BL/6J mouse using dT-primer and inserted into
mammalian expression vectors, as described in Supplementary Materials and Methods. All
the expression vectors for GS mutants were constructed and used as described in
Supplementary Materials and Methods. Among GS mutants, F337A and an all-Ala
replacement mutants of 355-358 (GYFE) were confirmed by MALDI-TOF MS and
LC-MS/MS after digestion with Asp-N protease or trypsin.

Cell culture and transfection
HEK-293T cells were maintained at 37°C, 5% CO2, in high glucose (4.5 g D-glucose/L)
DMEM-GlutaMAX-I (Thermo Fisher Scientific) supplemented with 10% Fetal bovine
serum and 50 mg/L gentamicin. HEK-293T cells were plated in 6-well plates at ~60%
17

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

confluency and transfected with an expression vector DNA (0.5 μg/well) using PLUS
reagent (0.5 μL/well) and Lipofectamine LTX reagent (1.2 μL/well) (Thermo Fisher
Scientific).

Preparation of extracts of E. coli expressing GS and its mutants
Culture of E. coli and induction of coded molecules by cDNAs in pCold II vector were
described previously (11). E. coli were harvested and washed with PBS by centrifugation at
5,000 x g for 5 min. After addition of 50 μL H2O per pellet derived from 1 mL culture,
resuspended cells were mixed with an equal volume of 2-fold concentrated lysis buffer (40
mM Tris-HCl buffer (pH 7.6) containing 2% SDS) and immediately boiled for 3 min.
Extracts were sonicated by a Bioruptor (BM Equipment) in an ice-water bath (15 x 10 s
pulses at 10 s intervals) and followed by centrifugation at 28,000 x g for 10 min.
Supernatants were subjected to Western blot analysis.

Immunoblotting
Procedures of SDS-PAGE and blotting onto membranes were essentially the same as
previously described (11) except that a low fluorescence membrane (Immobilon-FL,
Merck) was used in the fluorescent method. Immunodetections were carried out by
chemiluminescent, colorimetric, and fluorescent methods using horseradish peroxidase
(HRP)-, alkaline phosphatase (AP)- and fluorescent dye-conjugated secondary Abs,
respectively. The secondary IgGs used are listed in Supplementary Materials and Methods.
Tris-buffered saline supplemented with 0.1% Tween 20 (TBT) was used as a wash buffer in
all three methods. In the chemiluminescent method, immunoreaction was carried out in
18

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

TBT containing 5% or 10% skim milk and the immunoreactivity was detected by a scanner
(GeneGenome, Syngene Bio Imaging) using Immobilon (Merck), ImmunoSTAR Zeta, or
LD (Wako Chem.) as a substrate. In the colorimetric method, immunoreaction was carried
out in TBT containing 0.2% casein (I-Block, Thermo Fisher Scientific), and the
immunoreactivity

was

detected

by

an

LAS-3000

Imager

(Fuji-Film)

using

5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate/nitro blue tetrazolium (Sigma) as a chromogenic
substrate. In the fluorescent method, the immunoreaction was carried out in TBT containing
0.2% casein, and the immunoreactivity was detected by an Odyssey 700 CLX Infrared
Imaging system (LI-COR Biosciences). Membranes of bound Abs for reprobing were
stripped by shaking membranes in 62.5 mM Tris-HCl (pH 6.8), 2% SDS, and 100 mM
2-mercaptoethanol for 1 h at 70°C. To avoid inhibition by former enzymatic reaction
products, reprobing was carried out only after detection by the fluorescent method.

Isolation of a subpopulation of the polyclonal anti-BCNT-C Ab, which cross-reacts
with GYFE of GS
GS(332-346) peptide, acetylated-EKKGYFEDRRPSANC-COOH (0.75 mg, 91.2% purity,
obtained from AnyGen), was coupled to 1 mL of SulfoLink Coupling Resin (Thermo Fisher
Scientific) packed in a column (MoBiTec) according to a manufacture’s protocol. The
anti-BCNT-C Ab of 4.45 mg diluted in 10 mL with Binding/Wash buffer (20 mM PBS (pH
7.0) containing 0.05% sodium azide) passed through the column 5 times and a flow-through
fraction was obtained. After washing the resin with 50 mL of Binding/Wash buffer, the
bound fraction (GYFE fraction) was eluted with 6 mL of 100 mM Glycine (pH 3.0) and
immediately neutralized with Neutralization buffer (1 M Tris-HCl (pH 8.5), 1.5 M NaCl, 5
19

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

mM EDTA). The protein concentrations of the binding fraction (GYFE fraction) and the
flow-through fraction were determined by Bicinchoninic acid (BCA) assay kit (Thermo
Fisher Scientific) using bovine serum albumin as a standard after buffer exchange and
concentration by ultrafiltration using Amicon○R Ultra-4, 30kDa (Merck Millipore). Their
protein concentrations were 0.78 mg and 2.80 mg, respectively, with total recovery of
80.7%.

Competitive experiments for evaluation of the specificity of the GYFE fraction to
GYIE of Bcnt
Extracts of HEK293T cells expressing Flag-mGS (F-mGS) or Flag-mBcnt (F-mBcnt) were
adjusted to show an equal immunoreactivity to anti-Flag Ab, then subjected to Western
blotting. The membrane was first reacted with anti-Flag Ab to confirm loading amounts.
After stripping, the membranes were reporobed with the GYFE fraction (1.33 nM as a IgG)
pre-incubated with BCNT-C peptide (NH2-EELAIHNRGKEGYIERKA-NH2, 92.3% purity,
from

AnyGen)

or

BCNT-C

peptide

replacing

GYIE

with

Alanine

(NH2-

EELAIHNRGKEAAAARKA-NH2, 98.3% purity, from AnyGen) at a final concentration of
25 μM.

Mass spectroscopy analysis
The CBB stained protein bands in the gel were excised and de-stained. The protein bands
were digested with trypsin (TPCK-treated, Worthington Biochemical) at 37°C for 12 h in 50
mM Tris-HCl (pH 8.0). The digests were analyzed by nano LC–MS/MS using a Q Exactive
mass spectrometer exactly as described previously (11).
20

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

Immunocytochemistry
Transfected HEK-293T cells (see “Cell culture and transfection”) were plated on glass
slides (Millicell EZ 4-well glass slides, Merck Millipore) coated with poly-D-lysine
(Sigma-Aldrich). After 30 h, the cultured cells were fixed with ice-cold 4%
paraformaldehyde (PFA) in 0.1 M phosphate-buffer (PB, pH 7.2) for 15 min and subjected
to double immunostaining as described in the “Immunohistochemistry” section of
Supplementary Materials and Methods. First, cells were stained with guinea pig
anti-BCNT-C Ab (1:500) and visualized by FITC-conjugated donkey anti-guinea pig IgG
(1:50, Jackson ImmunoResearch). The second staining was done with rabbit anti-GS Ab
(1:1000, GeneTex) visualized by Cy3-conjugated donkey anti-rabbit IgG (1:200, Jackson
ImmunoResearch). Immunostained cells were examined by confocal laser scanning
microscopy (FV1000, Olympus).

21

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We thank Dr. Toshiyuki Araki for gift of GS-myc plasmid and Drs. Mathias Uhlen, Howard
W. Davidson, Eiji Kinoshita, Ichiro N. Maruyama, Daniel M. Roberts, and Masami
Kusunoki for discussion. We also thank Rie Fujii and Dr. Tomoko Warita for supporting
experimental works. We are grateful to Dr. Makoto Iwata for critical reading the manuscript
and comments.

AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS
N.K., S.I. and S.Y.S. conceived the study and wrote the manuscript. K.N., S.I., C.K. and
S.Y.S. executed experiments and T.S. and N.D. conducted MS analysis. T.K. performed 3D
analysis of epitope and Y.K., M.S., O.U. and Y.O.I. contributed reagents. All authors
reviewed the manuscript.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Competing interests: The authors declare no competing interests.

22

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

REFERENCES
1. Chiavenna, S. M., Jaworski, J. P. & Vendrell, A. State of the art in anti-cancer mAbs. J
Biomed Sci 24, 15 (2017).
2. Sharma, P. & Allison, J. P. The future of immune checkpoint therapy. Science 348,
56-61 (2015).
3. Thomas, A., Teicher, B. A. & Hassan, R. Antibody-drug conjugates for cancer therapy.
Lancet Oncol 17, e254-e262 (2016).
4. Rossi, D., Modena, V., Sciascia, S. & Roccatello, D. Rheumatoid arthritis: Biological
therapy other than anti-TNF. Int Immunopharmacol 27, 185-188 (2015).
5. Zampeli, E., Vlachoyiannopoulos, P. G. & Tzioufas, A. G. Treatment of rheumatoid
arthritis: Unraveling the conundrum. J Autoimmun 65, 1-18 (2015).
6. Feyen, O. et al. Off-target activity of TNF-alpha inhibitors characterized by
proteinbiochips. Anal Bioanal Chem 391, 1713-1720 (2008).
7. Mahmud, M. N. et al. A multispecific monoclonal antibody G2 recognizes at least three
completely different epitope sequences with high affinity. Protein Sci 26, 2162-2169
(2017).
8. Koenig, P., Sanowar, S., Lee, C. V. & Fuh, G. Tuning the specificity of a Two-in-One
Fab against three angiogenic antigens by fully utilizing the information of deep
mutational scanning. MAbs 9, 959-967 (2017).
9. Forsström, B. et al. Proteome-wide epitope mapping of antibodies using ultra-dense
peptide arrays. Mol Cell Proteomics 13, 1585-1597 (2014).
10. Peng, H. P., Lee, K. H., Jian, J. W. & Yang, A. S. Origins of specificity and affinity in
antibody-protein interactions. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 111, E2656-2665 (2014).
23

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

11. Iwashita, S. et al. Mammalian Bcnt/Cfdp1, a potential epigenetic factor characterized by
an acidic stretch in the disordered N-terminal and Ser250 phosphorylation in the
conserved C-terminal regions. Biosci Rep 35, e00228 (2015).
12. Iwashita, S. et al. A transposable element-mediated gene divergence that directly
produces a novel type bovine Bcnt protein including the endonuclease domain of RTE-1.
Mol Biol Evol 20, 1556-1563 (2003).
13. Eisenberg, D., Gill, H. S., Pfluegl, G. M. & Rotstein, S. H. Structure-function
relationships of glutamine synthetases. Biochim Biophys Acta 1477, 122-45 (2000).
14. Rose, C. F., Verkhratsky, A. & Parpura, V. Astrocyte glutamine synthetase: pivotal in
health and disease. Biochem Soc Trans 41, 1518-1524 (2013).
15. Peri, C., Morra, G. & Colombo, G. Surface energetics and protein-protein interactions:
analysis and mechanistic implications. Sci Rep 6, 24035 (2016).
16. Urayama, O., Murakoshi, T. & Ikawa, Y. K rev-1 protein is abundantly expressed in the
rat spinal cord. Biochem Biophys Acta 1243, 446-452 (1995).
17. Saitoh, F. & Araki, T. Proteasomal degradation of glutamine synthetase regulates
Schwann cell differentiation. J Neurosci 30, 1204-1212 (2010).
18. Kamei, Y. et al. FOXO1 activates glutamine synthetase gene in mouse skeletal muscles
through a region downstream of 3’-UTR: possible contribution to ammonia
detoxification. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab 307, E485–E493 (2014).
19. Norenberg, M. D. & Martinez-Hernandez, A. Fine structural localization of glutamine
synthetase in astrocytes of rat brain. Brain Res 161, 303-310 (1979).
20. Kulijewicz-Nawrot, M., Syková, E., Chvátalm, A., Verkhratsky, A., & Rodríguez, J. J.
Astrocytes and glutamate homoeostasis in Alzheimer's disease: a decrease in glutamine
24

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

synthetase, but not in glutamate transporter-1, in the prefrontal cortex. ASN Neuro 5,
273-282 (2013).
21. Huyghe, D. et al. Glutamine synthetase stability and subcellular distribution in
astrocytes are regulated by γ-aminobutyric type B receptors. J Biol Chem 289,
28808-28815 (2014).
22. Krajewski, W. W. et al. Crystal structures of mammalian glutamine synthetases illustrate
substrate-induced conformational changes and provide opportunities for drug and
herbicide design. J Mol Biol 375, 217-228 (2008).
23. Jayakumar, A. R. & Norenberg, M. D. Glutamine synthetase: role in neurological
disorders. Adv Neurobiol 13, 327-350 (2016).
24. Iwashita, S., Nakashima, K., Sasaki, M., Osada, N. & Song S. Y. Multiple duplication
of the bucentaur gene family, which recruits the APE-like domain of retrotransposon:
Identification of a novel homolog and distinct cellular expression. Gene 435, 88-95
(2009).
25. Holash, J. A., Harik, S. I., Perry, G. & Stewart, P. A. Barrier properties of testis
microvessels. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 90, 11069-11073 (1993).
26. Forsström, B. et al. Dissecting antibodies with regards to linear and conformational
epitopes. PLoS One 10, e0121673 (2015).
27. Zhou, Y. H., Chen, Z., Purcell, R. H. & Emerson, S. U. Positive reactions on Western
blots do not necessarily indicate the epitopes on antigens are continuous. Immunol Cell
Biol 85, 73-78 (2007).
28. McIntush, E. W. Response: ‘Antibody crossreactivity between the tumour suppressor
PHLPP1 and the proto-oncogene β-catenin’ EMBO reports 14, 494-496 (2013).
25

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

29. Glanville, J. et al. Identifying specificity groups in the T cell receptor repertoire. Nature
547, 94-98 (2017).
30. Caoili, S. E. Expressing redundancy among linear-epitope sequence data based on
residue-level physicochemical similarity in the context of antigenic cross-reaction. Adv
Bioinformatics 1276594 (2016).
31. Kurien, B.T. Affinity Purification of Autoantibodies from an Antigen Strip Excised
from a Nitrocellulose Protein Blot. Protein Blotting and Detection. Methods in
Molecular Biology (Methods and Protocols) (eds. Kurien, B., Scofield, R.) vol 536
(Humana Press, Totowa, NJ, 2009)
32. Fang, L. Antibody purification from Western blotting. Bio-protocol 2, e133 (2012).
33. Kaspersen, J. D., Søndergaard, A., Madsen, D. J., Otzen, D. E. & Pedersen, J. S.
Refolding of SDS-unfolded proteins by nonionic surfactants. Biophys J 112, 1609-1620
(2017).
34. Yamakuni, T. et al. Isolation and immunohistochemical localization of a cerebellar
protein. Neurosci Lett 45, 235-240 (1984).

26

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

FIGURE LEGENDS

Figure 1: The 43 kDa protein as a major reactant in Western blotting with the
anti-BCNT-C Ab.
Western blotting was conducted with the polyclonal anti-BCNT-C, mBcnt-N and Bcnt-Cter
Abs, as shown under each figure, using extracts of mouse brain and HEK293T cells
transfected with mouse bcnt expression vector, as shown on the top of each lane. Note that a
strong signal of the 43 kDa in mouse brain extracts was detected only by anti-BCNT-C
Ab,while the recombinant mouse Bcnt protein was detected by all Abs.

Figure 2: The isolated 43 kDa protein from bovine brain.
The 43 kDa protein was isolated from bovine brain (see Supplementary Materials and
Methods and Fig. S4 online). The eluted fractions from anti-BCNT-C Ab-linked agarose
with the most positive immunoreactivities detected by a colorimetric method (left panel
shows a representative fraction) were pooled, subjected to acetone precipitation, separated
by SDS-PAGE and stained with Coomassie brilliant blue (right panel).

Figure 3: Specific recognition of GS by the anti-BCNT-C Ab.
(A) HEK239T cells were transfected with plasmids encoding Flag-tagged or tag-free mouse
GS (F-mGS, mGS), mouse Bcnt/Cfdp1 (F-mBcnt, mBcnt), respectively, and their extracts
were subjected to Western blotting by double probing with the anti-BCNT-C Ab (upper
panel) and the anti-GS Ab (lower panel). Both signals were detected by a fluorescent
method. None and Vector indicate a vehicle and a blank vector control, respectively. (B)
27

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

HEK293T cells were transfected with plasmids encoding mGS (A-C, E-G, I-K) or mBcnt
(D, H, L) and immunostained with the anti-BCNT-C Ab (A, D), anti-mBcnt-N Ab (E, H),
anti-Bcnt-Cter Ab (I, L), or anti-GS Ab (B, F, J). C, G, and K are merged figures of A with
B, E with F, and I with J, respectively. Scale bars indicate 50 μm. The asterisk indicates
non-specific band.

Figure 4: Core sequence of the epitope recognized by the anti-BCNT-C Ab on GS.
(A) Upper panel: Schematic structures of full-length mGS (GS-WT) and its two deletion
mutants (GS-D1 and GS-D2). Orange and light green boxes indicate His-tag and the amino
acid residues of GS, respectively. Figures above each box represent the number of amino
acids constituting the coding region. Lower panels: Western blotting of extracts of E. coli
expressing GS-WT (WT), GS-D1 (D1), or GS-D2 (D2) and non-induced E. coli (NI) by the
anti-BCNT-C Ab. The membrane was reprobed with anti-His-tag Ab to confirm the amounts
of applied GS mutants. (B) Upper panel: Amino acid sequences of the antigen peptide (Ag)
used to raise the anti-BCNT-C Ab, the C-terminal region of mouse GS and four peptide
fragments (P1–P4) used for competition experiment. To avoid dimer formation, two
cysteine residues of GS peptides were replaced with serine (red letters). Lower panel:
Western blotting of extracts of E. coli expressing GS-WT with the anti-BCNT-C Ab
preincubated with 5 μM of Ag, each GS peptide (P1-P4) or DMSO for negative control (-)
as indicated on the top of each lane. An anti-His-tag Ab was used in the same way as in (A).
(C, D) Western blotting of extracts of E. coli expressing GS-WT, six deletion GS mutants
(C) or alanine substitution mutants of one or four amino acids (in red letters) (D) with the
anti-BCNT-C or anti-His-tag Ab in the same way as in (A). Red letters in (C) indicate an
28

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

amino acid sequence in antigen peptide for anti-BCNT-C Ab, which is similar to KKGYFE
in P1 peptide of GS.

Figure 5: Isolation of the subpopulation of the polyclonal anti-BCNT-C Ab, which
cross-reacts with GYFE of GS, and its affinity to GYFE of GS and GYIE of Bcnt.
The subpopulation of the polyclonal anti-BCNT-C Ab cross-reacting with GYFE of GS was
isolated by an affinity column using GS(332-346) peptide (see MATERIALS AND
METHODS). Extracts of HEK293T cells expressing Flag-mGS (F-mGS) or Flag-mBcnt
(F-mBcnt), which were adjusted to show an equal immunoreactivity to anti-Flag Ab, were
subjected to Western blotting. The membrane was first reacted with anti-Flag Ab to confirm
loading amounts (lower panels in A and B). After stripping, (A) the membranes were
reprobed with untreated (Whole), flow-through (Flow Through) or affinity-purified (GYFE
fraction) Abs from the polyclonal anti-BCNT Ab by GS(332-346) peptide affinity column.
(B) The membranes were reporobed with the GYFE fraction pre-incubated using BCNT-C
peptide (BCNT-C(GYIE)) or BCNT-C peptide replacing GYIE with Alanine (BCNT-C
(All-Ala)). The asterisk indicates non-specific band.

Figure 6: Role of Phe-337 in stereochemical environment of core amino acids of
common epitope.
(A) Western blotting was carried out as described in Fig. 4A using the extracts of E. coli
expressing wild type GS (GS-WT) or its substitution mutants of F337 with various amino
acids as shown in upper left panel and on the top of each lane. Blue letters indicate the core
amino acids and red letters denote the respective substituted amino acids. (B) The inserted
29

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/739862; this version posted September 25, 2019. The copyright holder for this preprint (which was
not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made available
under aCC-BY 4.0 International license.

picture at the left top shows top-view of one pentameric ring for human GS consisted of two
pentameric rings (PDB code 2OJW). The red circle depicts the location of the one of the
core amino acids, GYFE, in the five identical subunits. 3D-layout of the KKGYFEDR
peptide in GS displaying the spatial arrangement of the common epitope region. This layout
was drawn using Waals (Altif Laboratories) based on a data of X-ray crystallography (PDB
code 2OJW, ref. 22) of human GS.

30

Fig 1	

Fig 2	

Fig 3	

Fig 4	

Fig 5	

Fig 6	

