bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

1

Title: Temporal patterns in the evolutionary genetic distance of SARS-CoV-2 during the COVID-19

2

pandemic

3

Running Title: Mutation accumulation in SARS-CoV-2

4

Keywords: SARS-CoV-2; genetic distance; whole genome sequencing

5
6

Authors:

7

Jingzhi Lou1,+, Shi Zhao1,2,+, Lirong Cao1,+, Zigui Chen3, Renee WY Chan4, Marc KC Chong1,2,

8

Benny CY Zee1,2, Paul KS Chan3, and Maggie H Wang1,2*

9

Author affiliation:

10

1 JC School of Public Health and Primary Care, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong,

11

China

12

2 CUHK Shenzhen Research Institute, Shenzhen, China

13

3 Department of Microbiology, the Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China

14

4 Department of Paediatric, the Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China

15

+ Joint first authors.

16

* Correspondence to: maggiew@cuhk.edu.hk (MHW)

17

Email addresses of all authors

18

JL: jzlou@qq.com

19

SZ: zhaoshi.cmsa@gmail.com

20

LC: caolr@link.cuhk.edu.hk

21

ZC: zigui.chen@cuhk.edu.hk

22

RWYC: reneewy@cuhk.edu.hk

23

MKCC: marc@cuhk.edu.hk

24

BCYZ: bzee@cuhk.edu.hk

25

PKSC: paulkschan@cuhk.edu.hk

26

MHW: maggiew@cuhk.edu.hk

27

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

28

Abstract:

29

Background: During the pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), the genetic mutations

30

occurred in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) cumulatively or

31

sporadically. In this study, we employed a computational approach to identify and trace the emerging

32

patterns of the SARS-CoV-2 mutations, and quantify accumulative genetic distance across different

33

periods and proteins.

34

Methods: Full-length human SARS-CoV-2 strains in United Kingdom were collected. We

35

investigated the temporal variation in the evolutionary genetic distance defined by the Hamming

36

distance since the start of COVID-19 pandemic.

37

Findings: Our results showed that the SARS-CoV-2 was in the process of continuous evolution,

38

mainly involved in spike protein (S protein), the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) region of

39

open reading frame 1 (ORF1) and nucleocapsid protein (N protein). By contrast, mutations in other

40

proteins were sporadic and genetic distance to the initial sequenced strain did not show an increasing

41

trend.

42

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

43

Introduction:

44

The pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by the severe acute respiratory

45

syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) poses severe threat to public health globally. The genetic

46

mutations in SARS-CoV-2 have been detected frequently. Although most mutations occur

47

sporadically and are purged shortly, it appears that some mutations gradually reach fixation [1].

48

Given increasing numbers of fixed mutations, the circulating SARS-CoV-2 strains may diverge from

49

the original strain in terms of an increasing accumulative genetic distance. The accumulation of

50

genetic distance reflects a steady viral evolutionary process that may affect the characteristics of

51

SARS-CoV-2, immune recognition, and effectiveness of antivirals targeting the pathogen. In this

52

study, we employed a computational approach to identify and trace the emerging patterns of the

53

SARS-CoV-2 mutations, and quantify accumulative genetic distance across different periods and

54

proteins.

55

Data and methods:

56

The full-length human SARS-CoV-2 strains in United Kingdom were obtained from Global Initiative

57

on Sharing all Influenza Data (GISAID) [2] on September 23, 2020. A total of 40,527 strains were

58

collected with the collection date ranging from January 27 to September 14, 2020. We used a

59

stratified sampling scheme to randomly selected sequences in biweekly time interval. See

60

Supplementary Materials S1 for the details of the sampling scheme and summary. As one of the first

61

reported sequences, ‘China/Wuhan-Hu-1/2019’, which was collected in December 31, 2019, was

62

considered as the reference strain for sequence alignment, and as the initial strain for genetic distance

63

calculation against other strains. The genetic distance to the initial strain was defined by the

64

Hamming distance. We investigated the temporal variation in the accumulative genetic distance in

65

the cross-sectional series. To better observe the dynamic trend of genetic distance, a sliding window

66

was applied (Supplementary Materials S2). Multiple sequences alignment was performed using

67

MEGA-X (version 10.1.8).

68

Results and discussions:

69

We observed that the genetic distance to the initial strain steadily increased with time since February

70

2020 (Figure 1). The overall distance of all proteins rose from 0 to a peaking level at 9.27 codons on

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

71

August 21, 2020, which implied mutations with evolutionary advantages occurred and gradually

72

accumulated. Moreover, deleterious mutants can only preserve for a short period in virus population

73

and disappeared due to functional issues or less adaption to environment, which explains the

74

fluctuations in the genetic distance curve, e.g. open reading frame 8 (ORF8) in Figure 1. By further

75

observing the distance in each protein, we found continuous increasing trends in the spike protein (S

76

protein), the ORF1 (especially in the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, Supplementary Materials S3)

77

and the nucleocapsid protein (N protein), and no obvious trends in the membrane protein (M protein),

78

the envelope protein (E protein), the ORF3, ORF6-8 and ORF10, see Figure 1. It suggested a

79

stronger natural selection pressure on the S protein, the ORF1 and the N protein. The S protein is

80

responsible for receptor recognition and membrane fusion, and contains a receptor binding domain

81

(RBD), which is considered as the target for the SARS-CoV-2 vaccines under development[3-5].

82

The RdRp in ORF1 plays a central role in the replication and transcription cycle of SARS-CoV-2 and

83

thus is considered as a target for nucleotide analog antiviral inhibitors[6]. N protein is a

84

multifunctional and highly immunogenic determinant, whose function is mediating the packaging of

85

the viral RNA genome into the nascent virion[7]. These three proteins were critical in determining

86

the course of transmission, infection and reproduction of the virus, and thus accumulated mutations

87

in these proteins might be related to the viral adaptation to the environment both in vivo and in vitro.

88

By contrast, genetic distances of the proteins with sporadic mutation were usually below 0.5 codon

89

without demonstration of an increasing trend. To date, the mutations in these proteins have not

90

maintained, which might be due to their less competitive strength in facilitating the viral adaptation

91

to the environment.

92

Our results showed that the SARS-CoV-2 was in the process of continuous evolution, mainly

93

involved in the S protein, the RdRp region of ORF1 and the N protein. In August 24, 2020, the first

94

cases of COVID-19 re-infection was officially identified and reported that the viruses corresponding

95

to the first and second infections carried 13 amino acid differences [8]. Another study showed that

96

functional S protein and N-terminal domain of SARS-CoV-2 with mutations conferred resistance to

97

monoclonal antibodies [9]. Continuous evolution of the virus might bring considerable challenge to

98

the development of antiviral drugs and vaccines.

99

Conclusion:

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

100

This study presents the evolutionary process of SARS-CoV-2 virus from the aspect of genetic

101

distance. The continuous mutation accumulation was observed in genes encoding the S protein, the

102

RdRp region and the N protein, but not be observed in genes encoding other proteins to date.

103

Therefore, future investigation is warranted to study the characteristics and the effects associated

104

with the accumulative mutations in SARS-CoV-2, as well as the treatment or control strategies.

105

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

106
107

Figure 1. The time-varying genetic distance from initial strain in different proteins.

108

The green, orange and purple lines represent genetic distance in S protein, ORF1 and N protein with
ith

109

increasing trends, respectively. The blue lines represent genetic distance in M protein, E protein,
in,

110

ORF3, ORF6, ORF7, ORF8 and ORF10 without notable trends.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

111

Declarations

112

Authors’ contributions

113

MHW conceived the study. JL collected the data and carried out the analysis. JL, SZ, LC and MHW

114

discussed the results. JL drafted the first manuscript. JL, SZ, LC and MHW reviewed and edited the

115

manuscript. All authors critically read and revised the manuscript and gave final approval for

116

publication.

117

Funding

118

This work is supported by the Health and Medical Research Fund (HMRF) Commissioned Research

119

on COVID-19 [COVID190103] and [INF-CUHK-1] of Hong Kong SAR, China, and partially

120

supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) [31871340] and CUHK

121

Direct Grant [4054524].

122

Disclaimer

123

The funding agencies had no role in the design and conduct of the study; collection, management,

124

analysis, and interpretation of the data; preparation, review, or approval of the manuscript; or

125

decision to submit the manuscript for publication.

126

Acknowledgements

127

The SARS-CoV-2 sequences were collected from Global Initiative on Sharing all Influenza Data

128

(GISAID) accessible via https://www.gisaid.org/. We thank the contribution of the submitting and

129

the originating laboratories. This study was conducted using the resources of Alibaba Cloud

130

Intelligence High Performance Cluster computing facilities, which is made free for COVID-19

131

research.

132

Conflict of interests

133

MHW is a shareholder of Beth Bioinformatics Co., Ltd. BCYZ is a shareholder of Beth

134

Bioinformatics Co., Ltd and Health View Bioanalytics Ltd. Other authors declared no competing

135

interests.

136

Ethics approval and consent to participate

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

137

The human SARS-CoV-2 strains were collected via public domains, and thus neither ethical

138

approval nor individual consent was not applicable.

139

Availability of materials

140

All data used in this work were publicly available.

bioRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.11.01.363739; this version posted November 2, 2020. The copyright holder for this preprint
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is made
available under aCC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license.

141

References:

142
143
144

1.

145
146
147
148

2.

149
150
151

3.

152
153
154

4.

155
156
157

5.

158
159
160

6.

161
162
163
164

7.

165
166
167
168

8.

169
170

9.

171

Benvenuto D, Demir AB, Giovanetti M, Bianchi M, Angeletti S, Pascarella S, et al. Evidence for mutations in

SARS-CoV-2 Italian isolates potentially affecting virus transmission. Journal of medical virology. 2020. Epub
2020/06/04. doi: 10.1002/jmv.26104. PubMed PMID: 32492183; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC7300971.
Shu Y, McCauley J. GISAID: Global initiative on sharing all influenza data - from vision to reality. Euro

surveillance : bulletin Europeen sur les maladies transmissibles = European communicable disease bulletin. 2017;22(13).
Epub 2017/04/07. doi: 10.2807/1560-7917.Es.2017.22.13.30494. PubMed PMID: 28382917; PubMed Central PMCID:
PMCPMC5388101.
Jackson LA, Anderson EJ, Rouphael NG, Roberts PC, Makhene M, Coler RN, et al. An mRNA Vaccine against

SARS-CoV-2 - Preliminary Report. The New England journal of medicine. 2020. Epub 2020/07/15. doi:
10.1056/NEJMoa2022483. PubMed PMID: 32663912; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC7377258.
Mercado NB, Zahn R, Wegmann F, Loos C, Chandrashekar A, Yu J, et al. Single-shot Ad26 vaccine protects

against SARS-CoV-2 in rhesus macaques. Nature. 2020. Epub 2020/07/31. doi: 10.1038/s41586-020-2607-z. PubMed
PMID: 32731257.
Wang Q, Zhang Y, Wu L, Niu S, Song C, Zhang Z, et al. Structural and Functional Basis of SARS-CoV-2 Entry by

Using Human ACE2. Cell. 2020;181(4):894-904.e9. Epub 2020/04/11. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2020.03.045. PubMed PMID:
32275855; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC7144619.
Gao Y, Yan L, Huang Y, Liu F, Zhao Y, Cao L, et al. Structure of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase from

COVID-19 virus. Science (New York, NY). 2020;368(6492):779-82. Epub 2020/04/12. doi: 10.1126/science.abb7498.
PubMed PMID: 32277040; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC7164392.
Zinzula L, Basquin J, Bohn S, Beck F, Klumpe S, Pfeifer G, et al. High-resolution structure and biophysical

characterization of the nucleocapsid phosphoprotein dimerization domain from the Covid-19 severe acute respiratory
syndrome coronavirus 2. Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications. 2020. Epub 2020/10/12. doi:
10.1016/j.bbrc.2020.09.131. PubMed PMID: 33039147; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC7532810.
To KK, Hung IF, Ip JD, Chu AW, Chan WM, Tam AR, et al. COVID-19 re-infection by a phylogenetically distinct

SARS-coronavirus-2 strain confirmed by whole genome sequencing. Clinical infectious diseases : an official publication
of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. 2020. Epub 2020/08/26. doi: 10.1093/cid/ciaa1275. PubMed PMID:
32840608; PubMed Central PMCID: PMCPMC7499500.
Weisblum Y, Schmidt F, Zhang F, DaSilva J, Poston D, Lorenzi JCC, et al. Escape from neutralizing antibodies by

SARS-CoV-2 spike protein variants. 2020:2020.07.21.214759. doi: 10.1101/2020.07.21.214759 %J bioRxiv.

