medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

1
2
3

Estimating the unseen emergence of COVID-19 in the US

4
5
6
7

Emily M. Javan1¶*, Spencer J. Fox1¶, Lauren Ancel Meyers1,2

8
9
10
11

1

12

America

13

2

Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, United States of

Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, New Mexico, United States of America

14
15
16

*Corresponding author

17

E-mail: emjavan@utexas.edu

18
19
20

¶

These authors contributed equally to this work.

21

NOTE: This preprint reports new research that has not been certified by peer review and should not be used to guide clinical practice.

1

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

22
23

Abstract
As SARS-CoV-2 emerged as a global threat in early 2020, China enacted rapid and strict

24

lock-down orders to prevent introductions and suppress transmission. In contrast, the United

25

States federal government did not enact national orders. State and local authorities were left to

26

make rapid decisions based on limited case data and scientific information to protect their

27

communities. To support local decision making in early 2020, we developed a model for

28

estimating the probability of an unseen COVID-19 epidemic in each US county based on the

29

number of confirmed cases. We found that counties with only a single reported case by April

30

13th had a 50% chance that SARS-CoV-2 was already spreading widely. By that date, 85% of

31

US counties covering 96% of the population had reported at least one case. Given the low rates

32

of testing and reporting early in the pandemic, taking action upon the detection of just one or a

33

few cases may be prudent.

34
35
36

Author Summary
By March 28, 2020, only 3 months after the first US case of COVID-19 was detected,

37

COVID-19 emerged in all 50 US states. Officials were forced to weigh the economic and

38

societal costs of strict social distancing measures against the future risks of COVID-19

39

hospitalizations and mortality in their communities. To support local decision makers throughout

40

the US, we developed a simple model to determine the chance that COVID-19 was spreading

41

unseen based on scant reported case counts. In mid-April, 85% of US counties containing 96%

42

of the population had reported at least one confirmed case. Our model predicted that each of

43

those counties thus faced at least a 50% chance that the virus was already spreading widely.

2

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

44

Aggressive pandemic mitigation measures, even before a threat is fully apparent, are particularly

45

critical when testing resources are limited.

46
47
48

Introduction
The pandemic caused by the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) has claimed over

49

242,000 American lives as of early November 2020 and may kill tens of thousands more by the

50

end of the year [1-3]. Early in the pandemic, when confirmed case counts were still relatively

51

low across the US, the federal government left decision making largely to state and local public

52

authorities. Amidst great uncertainty, they faced the unprecedented challenge of balancing the

53

threat of a mostly unseen but deadly virus against the economic and societal costs of shelter-in-

54

place and travel restrictions. At the time, most SARS-CoV-2 (the virus responsible for COVID-

55

19) cases were not reported due to the high proportion of mild and asymptomatic infections,

56

limited laboratory testing capacity and strict requirements for receiving tests (e.g. travel or

57

contact with someone from Wuhan, China) [4,5]. The CDC estimated that only one in ten

58

COVID-19 infections were reported during the early phase of the pandemic [6].

59

As the first cases of COVID-19 were reported, decision makers urgently needed to

60

determine whether these cases reflected sporadic clusters stemming from recent introductions or

61

sustained community transmission that might evolve into a large epidemic. In the southern US,

62

the 2016 expansion of Zika Virus (ZIKV) across the Americas posed a similar challenge. Cryptic

63

transmission meant that by the time a few cases were reported, a large epidemic could already be

64

underway [7]. Here, we describe a stochastic susceptible-exposed-infected-recovered

65

compartmental model framework for estimating the magnitude of an epidemic threat from scarce

66

case data. The approach was originally developed to support situational awareness for ZIKV then

3

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

67

adapted for COVID-19. We apply it to estimating the risk of unseen COVID-19 waves in

68

counties across the US during the emergence phase of the pandemic in 2020.

69
70
71

Results
We modeled the stochastic emergence of COVID-19 accounting for potential

72

superspreading events, asymptomatic infections, and epidemiological characteristics. We

73

assumed all US counties had roughly similar transmission rates. The chance that a county had

74

emerging COVID-19 waves ranged from 9% for zero detected cases to 100% for 25 or more (Fig

75

1). By March 16, 2020, counties cumulatively reported between 0 and 489 cases totaling 4,009

76

nationally. Epidemic risk exceeded 50% in roughly 15% of the 3,142 counties covering 63% of

77

the US population. By April 13, 2020, total reported cases in the US climbed to 467,158.

78

Consequently, we estimated that over 85% of US counties comprising 96% of the national

79

population had at least a 50% chance of having an epidemic already underway (Fig 1).

80

Based on COVID-19 case detection rates [6] for the week of April 13, 2020, we

81

estimated that sustained community transmission was probable as soon as even one case was

82

confirmed (Fig 2). At a moderate transmission rate (i.e. Re=1.5), the first case in a county signals

83

a 50% chance that an epidemic was underway. For a high transmission rate (i.e. Re=3.0), as may

84

be expected before COVID-19 lockdowns, the estimated risk increased to 83%. The projected

85

risks are generally higher for both larger transmission rates and lowercase detection rates. For

86

example, when Re is 1.5, the expected epidemic risk associated with a single case is 50% and

87

increases to 63% when the case detection rate drops from one in ten (10%) to one in twenty

88

(5%). For outbreaks that eventually spread widely, the expected time between the first COVID-

89

19 case report and the epidemic reaching 1,000 cumulative infections was 7.5 (95% CI 3.9-16.3)

4

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

90

weeks. The expected time between the tenth reported case and 1,000 cumulative infections

91

shrank by 41% to 4.4 (95% CI 2.1-11.4) weeks (Fig 3).

92

As a retrospective validation of our model, we compared our estimates to reported case

93

counts. We cannot know, with certainty, if and when epidemics began spreading in most US

94

counties. As a proxy, we assess whether case counts increased by at least five in the week

95

following our estimate on March 16 (Fig 4, middle line). We find that our estimates for the

96

probability of an ongoing epidemic (epidemic risk) are highly consistent with the fraction of

97

counties that exhibited jumps in reported cases. The cumulative number of reported cases in a

98

county by March 16 was a significant predictor of whether the number of new reported cases in

99

the following week (March 16-23) was at least one, five, or ten cases (logistic regression,

100

p<0.001). A one unit increase in cumulative reported cases increased the odds of a county

101

detecting at least one, five, or ten new cases by March 23 by 7.92 (95% CI 5.98-10.80), 4.90

102

(95% CI 4.14-5.99), and 3.16 (95% CI 2.80-3.63), respectively.

5

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

103
104

Fig 1. Risk of ongoing COVID-19 epidemics in the 3,142 US counties as of March 16 (top)

105

and April 13, 2020 (bottom). The chance of an unseen epidemic (epidemic risk) in a county

106

reporting only a single reported case is 50%; for a county reporting zero cases, the chance is 9%.

107

The model used in both maps assumes Re=1.5, a 10% case detection rate, and a generation time

108

of six days.
6

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

109
110

Fig 2. Sensitivity analysis with respect to the effective reproduction number (Re). For a

111

given number of reported cases, the estimated risk of an epidemic increased with Re. By the time

112

a single case is reported, there is a 13%, 50% or 83% chance of an ongoing epidemic for Re of

113

1.1, 1.5 or 3.0, respectively.

7

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

114
115

Fig 3. Expected time until the local epidemic exceeds 1,000 cumulative cases. For a given

116

number of cumulative reported cases (x-axis), we assume an epidemic is underway then estimate

117

the median and 95% CI (error bars) number of weeks until the cumulative total cases exceed

118

1,000. When the first case is reported, we would expect cumulative cases to surpass 1,000 in 7.5

119

(95% CI 3.9-16.3) weeks; when the 10th case is reported, the expected lead time shrinks to 4.4

120

(95% CI 2.1-11.4) weeks. The estimates are based on 100,000 stochastic simulations assuming

121

Re=1.5, a 10% case detection rate, and generation time of six days.

8

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

122
123

Fig 4. Proportion of all US counties in which COVID-19 case counts increased from March

124

16 to 23. The light, medium and dark gray lines correspond to increases of at least one, five, or

125

ten new cases within one week, respectively. The red ribbon indicates the model estimates for

126

the probability that an epidemic is underway, given the cumulative reported cases indicated on

127

the x-axis. The bottom and top of the ribbon correspond to scenarios in which Re=1.5 and Re=3.0,

128

respectively. These estimates are calculated based on 100,000 simulations for each reproduction

129

number, assuming a 10% case detection rate and a generation time of six days. The odds of a

130

county detecting at least five new cases increased by 4.90 (95% CI 4.14-5.99) for every one unit

131

increase in cases on March 16. For example, a county with one case on March 16 was roughly

132

five times more likely to have at least six cases a week later than a county with no reported cases.

9

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

133

Discussion

134

The timing and rate of COVID-19 emergence varied widely across the US. The earliest

135

of the 3,142 US counties to report a case was Snohomish, Washington on January 21, 2020. By

136

the first of March, April and May, 1%, 70% and 90% of all counties had reported at least one

137

case, respectively. We estimate that, by the time a county reported its first case, it had at least a

138

50% chance of harboring an unseen but growing epidemic. As of April 13, 2020, the risk

139

exceeded 90% in 54% of counties containing 91% of the US population. The New York Times

140

published real-time projections of our model in a national risk map on April 3, 2020, which

141

spread awareness of the growing COVID-19 threat to the nation [8].

142

Proactive responses to COVID-19 have been estimated to shorten the duration of costly

143

measures [9,10], whereas delays have likely cost lives [11]. If the goal of COVID-19

144

interventions is to fully contain an emerging outbreak as quickly as possible, our study suggests

145

that the first reported case should trigger action. The risk of an ongoing epidemic may already

146

exceed 50% and delaying until ten cases have been reported, for example, may substantially

147

reduce the window for corrective action and amassing adequate healthcare and other mitigation

148

resources.

149

Our analyses make several key assumptions. Case detection rates may vary

150

geographically and change through time depending on testing availability and regulations. Our

151

assumption of 10% is based on a CDC seroprevalence study, which reported rates ranging from

152

4% to 16% across ten sites [6]. We modeled superspreading events based on estimates for

153

SARS-CoV in Singapore in 2003 [12], which are consistent with more recent reports for SARS-

154

CoV-2 [13–15]. Our estimates do not account for repeated importations given the stay at home

155

orders and travel restrictions at the time. Multiple introductions would reduce our estimated

10

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

156

levels of epidemic risk since detected cases could reflect independent clusters rather than

157

continuous chains of transmission. Finally, our estimates depend on the effective reproduction

158

number of the pandemic which can vary spatiotemporally depending on local policies, testing

159

efforts, behavior, and population density [16,17]. Our estimates for mid-April, when much of the

160

US was under shelter-in-place orders, assume a relatively low Re of 1.5. Our retrospective

161

validation using data from mid-March, when intervention efforts varied geographically,

162

considers reproduction numbers ranging from 1.5 to 3.0.

163

This analysis, while simple, provided useful insight during a highly uncertain period of

164

the COVID-19 pandemic and can be easily adapted to provide early situational awareness for

165

future emerging infectious outbreaks. Our results suggest that proactive control measures may be

166

prudent, even before the threat becomes apparent [18].

167
168
169

Methods
We obtained county-level estimates for confirmed and suspected COVID-19 cases from a

170

data repository curated by the New York Times [19] and 2019 estimates of each county’s

171

population from the US Census Bureau [20]. We adapted the framework of another silent

172

spreader–Zika Virus (ZIKV)–which threatened to emerge in southern US states in 2016 [7] to

173

model COVID-19 in US counties. The discrete-time SEIR model assumes a branching process

174

for early transmission in which the number of secondary infections per infected case is

175

distributed according to a negative binomial distribution to capture occasional superspreading

176

events, as estimated for SARS-CoV outbreaks in 2003 [12]. The exposure and infectious periods

177

consist of “boxcars” to enforce the minimum number of days simulated individuals spent in each

178

compartment. We account for imperfect detection and COVID-19 specific epidemiological

11

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

179

characteristics (details in Table 1). Our baseline scenario assumes the Re of COVID-19 is 1.5,

180

accounting for ongoing social distancing measures across the US by mid-April, 2020 [21], and

181

10% detection of all cases. We do not explicitly model asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic

182

transmission and thus maintain a low detection probability for all infectious cases. To assess the

183

impact of these assumptions on our estimates, we conducted a sensitivity analysis that varied Re

184

(1.1 and 3.0) and detection rates (5%-40%).

185
186

Table 1. Model parameters used for simulating COVID-19 outbreaks.
Parameter

Description

Estimate

Source

Re

Effective reproduction number: Average number of new

1.5

[22]

cases from one infected individual in a susceptible and

1.1, 3.0

[17]

6

[23,24]

non-susceptible population
TG

Generation time (days): Average length of time between
consecutive exposures
𝑇! =

𝑒
1 𝑛
1
+ ' * = 𝑇" + ' * 𝑇#
𝜈
2 𝛿
2

TE

Latent period (days)

1.25

Fit to TG

TI

Infectious period (days)

9.5

[23]

e

Number of exposed compartments in boxcar

1

Fit to TG

implementation (min days of exposure)

12

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

n

Number of infectious compartments in boxcar

7

[23]

0.80

Fit to TG

0.73

Fit to TI

0.01

[25]

0.16

[12]

implementation (min days of infectiousness)
𝜈

Incubation rate: Daily probability of progressing from
one exposed compartment to the next

𝛿

Recovery rate: Daily probability of progressing from
one infectious compartment to the next

𝜂

Daily detecting rate: The daily probability of an
infectious individual being detected,

k

$.&
'!

Total dispersion parameter of negative binomial
distribution
R code for number of new infectious individuals drawn
daily:
𝑟𝑏𝑖𝑛𝑜𝑚(𝑛 = 1, 𝑝𝑟𝑜𝑏 = )

"

(

(

, 𝑠𝑖𝑧𝑒 = ' )
*(
!

187

13

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

188

We ran 100,000 stochastic outbreak simulations per scenario beginning with a single

189

undetected case and ending when cumulative infections reached 2,000 or the outbreak died out

190

(whichever came first). Because we model transmission as a branching process, the susceptible

191

population does not deplete as in other compartmental SEIR models. Following the methodology

192

of [7], simulated outbreaks that reached 2,000 cumulative cases and had a minimum prevalence

193

of 50 cases per day were classified as epidemics. We calculated the probability of an epidemic

194

for a given number of detected cases, x, by looking at all outbreaks that had x reported cases and

195

calculating the proportion of those outbreaks that progressed to epidemics. We then matched

196

county case numbers with the detected case number to obtain epidemic probabilities for each US

197

county based on their reported cumulative number of cases. We use our baseline scenario to

198

compare US maps of epidemic risk from March 16 and April 13, although Re closer to 3.0 may

199

be appropriate for mid-March. For simulations that became epidemics, we also calculated the

200

distribution of lags (in weeks) between the day the xth case was reported and the day the

201

epidemic surpassed 1,000 cumulative cases. Confidence intervals were calculated with the

202

quantile function in R version 3.6.1 [26].

203

To validate epidemic risk, we fit three logistic regressions to if US counties reported at

204

least one, five, or ten new cases over the week of March 16 to 23, 2020 (y-axis) and how many

205

cumulative cases there were on March 16 (x-axis). First, counties were grouped by the number of

206

reported cases on March 16. Counties with ten or more cases were put into one group due to the

207

low number of counties with more than ten cases on March 16. Second, March 23rd case counts

208

were subtracted from those on March 16 and the difference was classified as an increase of at

209

least one, five, or ten cases (three separate binary classifications). Finally, a logistic regression

210

was fit to each classification to determine if the number of cases on March 16 was a significant

14

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

211

predictor of new cases one week later. This week in mid-March was before lockdowns took

212

place in the US and saw only a moderate increase in daily tests nationally (from 20,000 to

213

60,000) [27]. We compare case counts from Monday to Monday to avoid weekend reporting

214

bias. To readily compare with epidemic risk estimates, we plot the percent of counties with an

215

increase in new cases with our epidemic risk estimates from Re=1.5 to Re=3.0.

15

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

216

References

217

1.

Woody S, Tec MG, Dahan M, Gaither K, Lachmann M, Fox SJ, et al. Projections for first-

218

wave COVID-19 deaths across the US using social-distancing measures derived from

219

mobile phones. medRxiv:2020.04.16.20068163v2 [Preprint]. 2020 [cited 2020 Nov 11].

220

Available from: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.04.16.20068163v2

221

2.

IHME COVID-19 health service utilization forecasting team, Murray CJL. Forecasting

222

COVID-19 impact on hospital bed-days, ICU-days, ventilator-days and deaths by US state

223

in the next 4 months. medRxiv:2020.03.27.20043752v1 [Preprint]. 2020 [cited 2020 Nov

224

11]. Available from: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.03.27.20043752v1

225

3.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. COVID-19 forecasts: deaths. 2020 [cited 2020

226

Nov 5]. Database: CDC [Internet]. Available from: https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-

227

ncov/covid-data/forecasting-us.html

228

4.

Li R, Pei S, Chen B, Song Y, Zhang T, Yang W, et al. Substantial undocumented infection

229

facilitates the rapid dissemination of novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2). Science. 2020;368:

230

489–493. doi: 10.1126/science.abb3221.

231

5.

coronavirus: A Boon or Bane?. JAMDSR. 2020;8: 109–111. doi: 10.21276/jamdsr.

232
233

Ansari FM, Aggarwal K, Chopra A, Agrawal MG, Soni P, Agarwal P, et al. Asymptomatic

6.

Havers FP, Reed C, Lim T, Montgomery JM, Klena JD, Hall AJ, et al. Seroprevalence of

234

Antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 in 10 Sites in the United States, March 23-May 12, 2020.

235

JAMA Intern Med. 2020. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2020.4130.

236

7.

risk in the United States. BMC Infect Dis. 2017;17: 1–9. doi: 10.1186/s12879-017-2394-9.

237
238

Castro LA, Fox SJ, Chen X, Liu K, Bellan SE, Dimitrov NB, et al. Assessing real-time Zika

8.

Glanz J, Bloch M, Singhvi A. Does my county have an epidemic? Estimates show hidden

16

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

239

transmission. The New York Times. 2020 Apr 4 [cited 2020 Nov 11]. Available from:

240

https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/03/us/coronavirus-county-epidemics.html

241

9.

Du Z, Xu X, Wang L, Fox SJ, Cowling BJ, Galvani AP, et al. Effects of proactive social

242

distancing on COVID-19 outbreaks in 58 cities, China. Emerg Infect Dis. 2020;26: 2267-

243

2269. doi: 10.3201/eid2609.201932.

244

10. Lyu W, Wehby GL. Community use of face masks and COVID-19: evidence from a natural

245

experiment of state mandates in the US. Health Aff. 2020;39: 1419–1425. doi:

246

10.1377/hlthaff.2020.00818.

247

11. Pei S, Kandula S, Shaman J. Differential effects of intervention timing on COVID-19

248

spread in the United States. medRxiv:2020.05.15.20103655v2 [Preprint]. 2020 [cited Nov

249

11 2020]. Available from:

250

https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.05.15.20103655v2

251

12. Lloyd-Smith JO, Schreiber SJ, Kopp PE, Getz WM. Superspreading and the effect of

252

individual variation on disease emergence. Nature. 2005;438: 355–359. doi:

253

10.1038/nature04153.

254

13. Adam D, Wu P, Wong J, Lau E, Tsang T, Cauchemez S, et al. Clustering and

255

superspreading potential of SARS-CoV-2 infections in Hong Kong. Nat Med. 2020. doi:

256

10.1038/s41591-020-1092-0.

257

14. Zhang Y, Li Y, Wang L, Li M, Zhou X. Evaluating transmission heterogeneity and super-

258

spreading event of COVID-19 in a metropolis of China. Int J Environ Res Public Health.

259

2020;17: 3705. doi:10.3390/ijerph17103705.

260
261

15. Endo A, Centre for the Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases COVID-19 Working
Group, Abbott S, Kucharski AJ, Funk S. Estimating the overdispersion in COVID-19

17

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

262

transmission using outbreak sizes outside China. Wellcome Open Res. 2020;5: 67. doi:

263

10.12688/wellcomeopenres.15842.3.

264

16. Ives AR, Bozzuto C. Estimating and explaining the spread of COVID-19 at the county level

265

in the USA. medRxiv:2020.06.18.20134700v4 [Preprint]. 2020 [cited 2020 Nov 11].

266

Available from: https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.06.18.20134700v4

267

17. Sy KTL, White LF, Nichols BE. Population density and basic reproductive number of

268

COVID-19 across United States counties. medRxiv:2020.06.12.20130021v1 [Preprint].

269

2020 [cited 2020 Nov 11]. Available from:

270

https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.06.12.20130021v1

271

18. Cowling BJ, Ali ST, Ng TWY, Tsang TK, Li JCM, Fong MW, et al. Impact assessment of

272

non-pharmaceutical interventions against coronavirus disease 2019 and influenza in Hong

273

Kong: an observational study. Lancet Public Health. 2020;5: e279-e288. doi:

274

10.1016/S2468-2667(20)30090-6.

275

19. The New York Times. Coronavirus (Covid-19) data in the United States; 2020 [cited 2020

276

Nov 11]. Database: github [Internet]. Available from: https://github.com/nytimes/covid-19-

277

data

278

20. US Census Bureau. County population totals: 2010-2019; 2020 [cited 2020 Nov 11].

279

Database: census [Internet]. Available from: https://www.census.gov/data/tables/time-

280

series/demo/popest/2010s-counties-total.html

281

21. Koo JR, Cook AR, Park M, Sun Y, Sun H, Lim JT, et al. Interventions to mitigate early

282

spread of SARS-CoV-2 in Singapore: a modelling study. Lancet Infect Dis. 2020;20: 678–

283

688. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(20)30162-6.

284

22. Shim E, Tariq A, Choi W, Lee Y, Chowell G. Transmission potential and severity of

18

medRxiv preprint doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/2020.04.06.20053561; this version posted November 13, 2020. The copyright holder for this
preprint (which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted medRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity.
It is made available under a CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license .

285

COVID-19 in South Korea. Int J Infect Dis. 2020;93: 339–344. doi:

286

10.1016/j.ijid.2020.03.031.

287

23. He X, Lau EHY, Wu P, Deng X, Wang J, Hao X, et al. Temporal dynamics in viral

288

shedding and transmissibility of COVID-19. Nat Med. 2020;26: 672–675. doi:

289

10.1038/s41591-020-0869-5.

290

24. Bi Q, Wu Y, Mei S, Ye C, Zou X, Zhang Z, et al. Epidemiology and transmission of

291

COVID-19 in 391 cases and 1286 of their close contacts in Shenzhen, China: a

292

retrospective cohort study. Lancet Infect Dis. 2020;20: 911-919. doi: 10.1016/S1473-

293

3099(20)30287-5.

294

25. Perkins A, Cavany SM, Moore SM, Oidtman RJ, Lerch A, Poterek M. Estimating

295

unobserved SARS-CoV-2 infections in the United States. PNAS. 2020;117: 22597-22602.

296

doi: 10.1073/pnas.2005476117.

297
298
299
300

26. R Core Team. R: a language and environment for statistical computing. Version 3.6.1
[software]. 2019. Available: https://www.R-project.org/
27. The Atlantic. The COVID tracking project US historical data; 2020 [cited 2020 Nov 11].
Database: covidtracking [Internet]. Available from: https://covidtracking.com/data/national

19

